Main_cat	Sub_category_1	Sub_category_2	Sub_category_3	Description
Exhaust system	Exhaust system complete			"Buy suitable parts for the exhaust/exhaust system of the car The exhaust system of a vehicle is exposed to many stresses. Hot and aggressive exhaust gases attack the pipes and cause the exhaust to rust from the inside out. Corrosion is also a threat from the outside, because the exhaust system is attached to the underbody of the car, so that suspensions or welds soon appear in a distinct brown tone. However, silencers, catalytic converters and pipes in modern vehicles are usually made of stainless steel. But normal wear and tear can also make it necessary to replace the exhaust system. For example, the washcoat of a catalytic converter, in which the precious metals for the chemical reactions are introduced, can come off over time because vibrations from the vibrating exhaust strain its adhesive properties. Buy a catalytic converter cheaply now at kfzteile24! Silencer Buy the right spare parts Under the menu item Complete exhaust system, after entering a vehicle, you can find and buy the exhaust system parts that are suitable for your car. The schematic representation makes it easier to assign pipes, catalytic converters and silencers. The correct seals, assembly parts or connectors can also be ordered conveniently and easily. Simply click on one of the marked parts to get even more information, such as the original spare part number."
Exhaust system	Exhaust flap			"Buy exhaust flaps for the exhaust cheaply online As a specialised dealer for spare parts and car accessories, kfzteile24 also offers exhaust flaps for the exhaust. As always, quality is our top priority. We work with well-known brand manufacturers and source exhaust flaps from Pierburg and febi bilstein, among others. See for yourself, because you buy from kfzteile24 without risk and can return ordered goods within 365 days. Quality is of course only one facet of our success. Thanks to optimized logistics and a large central warehouse, we are usually able to ship orders after just 24 hours. This pleases private customers and workshops alike. Test us! Electric exhaust flap from Pierburg Pneumatic exhaust flap from Pierburg Function of an exhaust flap Exhaust flaps are used to control the exhaust gas flow in order to create a balance between high performance and statutory noise protection regulations, depending on the requirements profile. In order to increase soundproofing, especially in the lower speed range, the exhaust flap is closed, while the exhaust back pressure under load is kept low by an open exhaust flap. The flap can also serve as a bypass and direct the exhaust gas flow into or past the rear silencer depending on the operating state. An exhaust flap also tends to allow for smaller silencers because less noise escapes through the closed flap. Manufacturers use this effect to inexpensively equip small and medium-sized vehicles with powerful engines whose silencers are not actually designed for this type of engine. The exhaust flap also plays an important role in the sound design of a vehicle. The car should make a powerful impression in every situation without exceeding legal requirements. Exhaust flaps are operated either pneumatically or electrically."
Exhaust system	Exhaust cover			"Buy exhaust trim for your car cheaply online The exhaust system of a car consists of many parts such as the exhaust manifold, the catalytic converter or the silencers. At the end of the exhaust system there is always the tailpipe, to which a corresponding tailpipe trim can be mounted. In the kfzteil24 shop you can buy the parts safely and conveniently online. You do not take any risk, because we pay attention to quality and purchase the tailpipe trims from the brand manufacturer Walker. We also grant a full 365-day right of return! The recipe for success of kfzteile24 is not only based on brand quality at reasonable prices, but also includes prompt delivery after purchase. Thanks to a large central warehouse and optimized logistics, we can usually ship ordered parts within 24 hours. Try us out! Tailpipe trim from Walker Tailpipe trim for a Volvo Tailpipe trims and exhaust trims In our shop you will find both tailpipe trims and exhaust trims. Of course, these are similar components with the same function. Tailpipe trims also serve a visual purpose, but are adapted by the manufacturer to the respective vehicle model. In contrast to exhaust trims, they are therefore not universally applicable but rather vehicle-specific. Buying them may be necessary, for example, if the old tailpipe trim shows signs of corrosion and the appearance of the car is not to be changed. The focus of an exhaust trim, on the other hand, is on a dynamic, sporty appearance."
Exhaust system	Euro1/Euro2/D3 conversion			"Convert your car to Euro 1, 2 & D3, improve emissions standards and save taxes It's not just new vehicles that are on the road. Older used cars are also still very popular due to their low purchase costs. The disadvantages of such cars are the high fuel consumption, the corresponding pollutant emissions and a high tax rate per 100cm  engine capacity. In order to reduce these costs and of course also to protect the environment, it is advisable to retrofit or convert the car. You can find corresponding sets in the kfzteile24 online shop. As with all parts, we value quality and work with well-known brand manufacturers. For example, you can find conversion catalysts or cold start control systems from Twintec and HJS with us. Cold start control system from HJS Conversion catalyst from Twintec Save taxes through environmental protection If you are thinking of using your old car for a longer period of time, you should definitely try to achieve a more favorable emissions standard by converting or converting. The tax savings are considerable. A Euro 1 petrol engine is almost twice as expensive as a corresponding Euro 2 engine. As a result, the initial installation costs are often paid off after just 2-3 years. The private contribution to environmental protection and the peace of mind cannot be measured in monetary terms."
Exhaust system	Flexible pipes			"Buy flexible exhaust pipes for the exhaust system cheaply online The kfzteile24 range also includes flexible pipes for the exhaust system, which, like all other spare parts in our range, meet the highest quality standards. As a specialist in the trade in car accessories and car parts, we know how important first-class material is when repairing cars. To ensure that only flawless goods leave our premises, flexible pipes are also regularly checked for quality. Try us risk-free, because we offer a full 365-day right of return. In addition to excellent quality and reasonable prices, the delivery time plays a decisive role. Both private customers and car workshops and breakdown services rely on parts being shipped quickly. We have therefore optimized our logistics so that ordered goods can usually be shipped within 24 hours of purchase. Fast delivery makes us a reliable partner for everything related to cars. Flexible pipe for the exhaust system with connecting piece Flexible pipe for the exhaust system without connecting pipe Flexibility thanks to flexible pipes In order to be able to connect the different components of an exhaust system safely and tightly to one another, not only pre-formed exhaust pipes are used, but also flexible pipes that can be used variably thanks to their flexible piece. They are suitable for bridging an exhaust route if molded parts are either not available or are no longer produced. Like all pipes in an exhaust, flexible pipes must also be absolutely tight so that no pollutants get into the interior and the silencer and catalytic converter can develop their full effect. Flexible pipes are available in different diameters from 40mm to 64mm and with or without a connecting pipe. The welding work required to adapt the flexible pipe to the exhaust system of the respective car should always be carried out by a specialist."
Exhaust system	Urea injection			"Urea injection sensor: NOx sensor ? what it is and what you need it for Without a NOx sensor, some cars can no longer function. Only with its help do some engines manage to comply with the limits for pollutant emissions and at the same time reduce fuel consumption. Explanation of the term NOx: NOx is a collective term for all nitrogen oxides, i.e. molecules with at least one nitrogen atom (N) and one oxygen atom (O). These include nitrogen monoxide (NO) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2). Nitrogen oxides are highly toxic to humans and can seriously damage the lungs if their concentration in the air is high. For years, car manufacturers have been faced with the challenge of building increasingly efficient and more fuel-efficient engines. One solution is so-called lean-burn engines with a NOx sensor and catalyst (e.g. FSI engines from VW and Audi). In this type of engine, the proportion of fuel in the air-fuel mixture is reduced and the proportion of oxygen is increased. This increases the lambda value to over 1, which significantly reduces fuel consumption. The problem: The conventional catalyst can only work optimally and convert nitrogen oxides into nitrogen and oxygen at a lambda value of 1. With the increased nitrogen oxide concentration in the exhaust gas, lean-burn engines would have no chance of complying with the regulations for maximum pollutant emissions. That's why there are NOx sensors and catalysts. So that the nitrogen oxides can still be converted, these engines have an additional NOx catalyst with NOx sensor. This enables lean-burn engines to comply with the legal limits and at the same time reduce their fuel consumption. Due to increasingly strict limits for pollutant emissions in new cars, NOx catalysts and sensors are not only found in lean-burn engines. Many modern diesel engines have a so-called SCR catalyst (SCR = selective catalytic reduction) instead of a NOx catalyst, which works in conjunction with urea (AdBlue) injected into the exhaust gas stream. In some cases, NOx catalysts and SCR catalysts are even installed in combination. This is how exhaust gas purification with a NOx catalyst works. In a gasoline engine, the NOx sensor and catalyst are located behind the ""normal"" catalyst, and in a diesel engine behind the oxidation catalyst and the particle filter. The sensor and catalyst work in a cycle: The NOx catalyst absorbs nitrogen oxides from the exhaust gas and stores them. The NOx sensor measures the nitrogen concentration behind the catalyst. When the NOx catalyst can no longer absorb any more nitrogen oxides, the sensor registers an increased nitrogen concentration. It reports this to the engine control unit. The engine control unit enriches the air-fuel mixture briefly (around 2 seconds).This releases the nitrogen oxides stored in the NOx catalyst and converts them into nitrogen and oxygen (as in a ?normal? catalyst). The cycle starts again. How long this cycle lasts varies from engine to engine and depending on the driving situation. The release of nitrogen oxides usually occurs at relatively high speeds. This is how the sensor measures the NOx content in the exhaust gas. The NOx sensor works in a similar way to a lambda sensor. It measures the concentration of nitrogen and oxygen in the exhaust gas stream. In conjunction with a special NOx catalyst, it ensures that the nitrogen oxides in the exhaust gas are converted into harmless gases. For this process, it is important that the NOx sensor functions perfectly and supplies data to the control unit. A NOx sensor consists of two chambers in which the following happens: Oxygen and nitrogen oxides (NOx) from the exhaust gases flow into the first chamber. The oxygen is ?pumped out? of the chamber. To do this, an electrolyte on the chamber wall is energized. The NOx enters the second chamber of the sensor and is split into nitrogen and oxygen by an electrode. The nitrogen exits the second chamber through a diffusion barrier. The oxygen remains behind. The oxygen is pumped out via a voltage-charged electrolyte, as in the first chamber. ? The more oxygen there is in the exhaust gas, the more voltage is needed to pump the oxygen out of the first chamber. ? The more NOx there is in the exhaust gas, the more voltage is needed to pump the oxygen out of the second chamber. Using this process, the sensor can determine the oxygen and NOx content in the exhaust gas. It passes these values ??on to the control unit. Differences between petrol and diesel engines In a petrol engine or diesel engine with a NOx catalyst, the NOx sensor is indispensable for exhaust gas purification. Only if it reports to the control unit in good time that the NOx catalyst is no longer absorbing nitrogen oxides can the mixture be enriched and the pollutants broken down. In a diesel engine with an SCR catalyst, the NOx is broken down permanently by adding AdBlue. The NOx sensor therefore only checks the function of the catalyst and is not actively involved in the exhaust gas purification. If it detects an increased nitrogen concentration in the exhaust gas, it sends an error message to the engine control unit. Problems with a broken NOx sensor If the NOx sensor fails, it sends no or only insufficient information to the engine control unit. This can have different consequences depending on the engine and vehicle. Here too, it is important how the exhaust gas purification works exactly: In a diesel engine with an SCR catalyst, the engine immediately switches to an emergency mode,in which the engine control light comes on and usually the power is also reduced. Reason: The engine can no longer ensure that the NOx is reliably filtered out by the SCR catalyst. The same thing happens with a defective SCR catalyst or an empty AdBlue tank. In a gasoline engine with a NOx catalyst, the control unit no longer knows whether the cleaning cycle of the sensor and catalyst is working properly. Therefore, it enriches the air-fuel mixture by injecting more gasoline. This is because the richer mixture allows the ""conventional"" catalyst to filter the nitrogen oxides out of the exhaust gases better. This increases consumption, but NOx emissions remain more or less the same. Whether the engine control light comes on and the engine goes into emergency mode depends on the vehicle in question. In some circumstances, a defective NOx sensor can therefore go unnoticed for a while."
Exhaust system	Heat protection			
Exhaust system	catalyst			"The catalytic converter is an important component in the car and is required by law as part of the exhaust system. You will therefore find a large selection and the appropriate assembly kits in the kfzteile24 online shop. As with all parts in our range, quality is also the main focus with a catalytic converter. We work with well-known brand manufacturers and offer catalytic converters from Walker (Tenneco), among others. We also regularly test catalytic converters in the bargain category for quality. This way we ensure that only flawless parts leave our premises. See for yourself and try us out! You buy without risk, because kfzteile24 grants a full 365-day right of return. As a specialist in the trade in car accessories and spare parts, we are also aware of how important fast delivery is in order to be able to carry out repairs promptly. We have therefore optimized our logistics according to the requirements of our customers and can usually deliver ordered catalytic converters within 24 hours. Catalyst by Walker Function of a catalytic converter A catalytic converter converts pollutants in the exhaust gas through chemical reactions and thereby protects the environment. These are mainly carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and unburned hydrocarbons. Since the catalytic converter can neutralize these three groups of substances, it is also referred to as a 3-way catalytic converter. After catalysis has taken place, carbon dioxide, nitrogen and water leave the tailpipe. In order for a catalytic converter to achieve its full performance and convert over 95 percent of the pollutants, certain conditions must be met. Firstly, a large proportion of the chemical reactions only take place at high temperatures and secondly, the exhaust gas must not be too rich or too lean. Since the catalytic converter is most effective in stoichiometric operation, lambda sensors measure the exhaust gas values ??and transmit them to the control unit for mixture preparation. The sensor placed in front of the catalytic converter is called the control sensor, while the lambda sensor measuring behind the catalytic converter is called the test, control or diagnostic sensor. The regulation of the mixture preparation by lambda sensors gives the regulated 3-way catalytic converter (g-Kat) its name. The professional mechanics at kfzteile24 have explained the connections as well as the technical and historical background of catalytic converters and lambda sensors in detail in our blog. Catalytic converter for cars Structure of the catalytic converter A catalytic converter is a bulbous tube with a honeycomb body inside it with numerous small channels. Metal oxides adhere to this carrier structure and serve as a storage layer for the catalytically active precious metals. Platinum, palladium or rhodium are used, among others. Although the precious metals do not wear out, a catalytic converter can still wear out. The carrier layer (the so-called washcoat) can, for example,due to impacts while driving. Frequent short-distance journeys can also limit the function of the catalytic converter, as the necessary temperatures are not reached and the catalytic layer becomes clogged. This problem should usually be resolved by a longer journey. However, there may also be additives in the fuel, particularly lead, which can deposit on the surface of the washcoat. Therefore, when abroad, make sure not to fill up with fuel that contains lead - otherwise, so-called catalytic converter poisoning would be the result."
Exhaust system	Manifold			"The exhaust manifold owes its name to its design, as it has to redirect the exhaust gases from the combustion process from the engine downwards into the exhaust. As the first part of the exhaust system, it is exposed to high temperatures of over 900 C and is therefore usually made of alloyed cast iron. But exhaust manifolds made of stainless steel are also not uncommon. Its primary task is to collect the exhaust gases from all cylinders and pass them on to the exhaust pipe. In addition, the exhaust manifold prevents other components in the engine from being damaged by the high thermal load. But the heat does not only have negative effects, because the catalyst needs high temperatures so that the chemical reactions can take place. It is therefore usually installed directly after the exhaust manifold. In so-called manifold catalysts, both components are fused into one. They have to be manufactured with particular care, as the honeycomb structure with the applied precious metals is exposed not only to high heat but also to the high pressure of the incoming exhaust gas. Exhaust manifold from Twintec Manifold catalyst from LRT High loads for the manifold The biggest challenge in manufacturing an exhaust manifold is the stress distribution within the component due to temperature expansion. Since all metals expand in heat and then contract again in cold, overload cracks can occur in the exhaust manifold. A replacement is then unavoidable. To avoid this, we work with brand manufacturers such as LRT Automotive, Blue Print and Twintec and regularly check the quality. At kfzteile24 you will not only find the manifolds but also suitable exhaust manifold gaskets. As with all parts of the exhaust system, it must be ensured that no exhaust gas escapes or even penetrates into the interior of the car."
Exhaust system	Lambda probe			"If the lambda sensor is defective, you can find a cheap replacement in our online shop. (Image: NGK) Lambda sensors are also part of the extensive range from kfzteile24. The small sensors are indispensable in modern vehicles and help to comply with increasingly strict emissions regulations. In our shop you can buy lambda sensors from brand manufacturers cheaply online. We offer lambda sensors from Bosch, NGK and Febi at unbeatable online prices. As a specialist in the trade in car accessories and spare parts, we know that fast delivery also plays a role when buying car parts. kfzteile24 has therefore optimized its logistics so that goods are usually dispatched within 24 hours of the order. Delivery times of between 1 and 2 working days are therefore the norm. 365-day return policy rounds off our offer. Try it out! Table of contents Lambda sensors at kfzteile24 Function of the lambda sensor Where does the lambda sensor get its name from? Explanation of the lambda value Optimal catalysis thanks to the lambda sensor Differences between lambda sensors Cause and symptoms of defects Changing the lambda sensor Continue driving without changing it? Error message despite replacing the lambda sensor? What is a lambda sensor? - Summary The lambda sensor is a sensor that measures the oxygen content in the exhaust gas stream of a car. The engine control unit uses the lambda value obtained to regulate the fuel-air mixture. In the correct lambda window, a catalyst can reduce the emission of harmful nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide by over 95 percent. We also explain in detail how this works. Lambda sensor from NGK Buy cheap lambda sensors from specialists such as NGK or Bosch. (Image: NGK) Task and basic principle of the lambda sensor The lambda sensor measures the amount of oxygen remaining in the exhaust gas after combustion and sends an analog, electrical signal to the engine control unit. There it is interpreted and used together with other parameters to form the mixture, i.e. the amount of fuel injected is controlled. Since the lambda sensor indirectly regulates the ratio between air and fuel, it is also known as a control sensor. In modern vehicles, the control sensor is supplemented by a control sensor or diagnostic sensor behind the catalytic converter. How does the lambda sensor get its name? The lambda sensor gets its name because it measures the combustion air ratio ? (lambda). In combustion theory, this describes the mass ratio of air to fuel in a combustion process. The combustion process, temperatures, pollutant levels or efficiency can be derived from ?, for example. In automobile exhaust technology, ?=1 means that just as much air is available as is necessary for the complete combustion of the fuel. This is then referred to as a stoichiometric mixture.This ratio naturally differs depending on the fuel used. For example, while nine parts of air are needed to burn one part of ethanol, petrol needs around 14.7 parts. Petrol therefore needs more air than ethanol to burn completely. What is the correct lambda value? This question cannot be answered in general terms, because the lambda value influences three different target variables of an engine: performance, consumption and environmental impact. In order to understand the connection, a few terms must first be defined. If the lambda value falls below 1, it is referred to as a ""rich mixture"" because not all of the fuel is burned. If there is an excess of air, i.e. the lambda value is greater than 1, it is referred to as a ""lean mixture"" because more air is available than is necessary for combustion. The lambda window (lambda is between 0.97 and 1.03) is the ideal range for the catalyst in which the greatest cleaning performance is achieved. The following statements can be made about the lambda value: ?=0.85 - maximum performance, high consumption, harmful to the environment ?=1.00 - balanced relationship between consumption and performance, environmentally friendly ?=1.10 - low fuel consumption with loss of performance and problems with the catalytic converter Effect of the lambda value The lambda value influences the performance and consumption of a motor. (Image: Stefan-XP @wikimedia.org (CC BY-SA 3.0)) Lambda sensor and catalytic converter ensure clean air Since the combustion of fuels also produces environmentally harmful and sometimes toxic pollutants, three-way catalytic converters have been compulsory in Germany since 1993. They reduce the proportion of hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides and carbon monoxide in the exhaust gas by more than 95%. Through chemical reactions on the precious metal plates made of platinum, palladium and rhodium, the vehicle catalytic converter converts these exhaust pollutants into harmless water, carbon dioxide, nitrogen and oxygen. This only works optimally at high temperatures and a stoichiometric air-fuel ratio (? = 1). The conversion takes place according to the following formulas: 2 CO (carbon monoxide) + O2 (oxygen) = 2 CO2 (carbon dioxide) CmHn (hydrocarbons) + (m+n/4) O2 (oxygen) = m CO2 (carbon dioxide) + n/2 H2O (water) 2 NO (nitrogen oxide) + 2 CO (carbon monoxide) = N2 (nitrogen) + 2 CO2 (carbon dioxide) Differences in the structure of lambda sensors 1. Voltage jump sensor - zirconium dioxide lambda sensor Voltage jump sensors are also called Nernst sensors after Walther Nernst and work with zirconium dioxide as a membrane. At high temperatures (at least 300 degrees Celsius for YSZ ceramic, but sometimes also 600-700 degrees Celsius), this material can electrolytically conduct oxygen ions. Sensors on the inside of the probe can now measure the difference in oxygen concentration between the exhaust gas and the reference air.The reference air is normally the ambient air, which, depending on the design of the probe, is also supplied separately to avoid contamination and incorrect measurement results caused by CO2, CO, water, oil or fuel vapors. There are also probes that do not require any additional air and instead create an oxygen-free reference within the sensor as a reference point. The so-called probe voltage is in the optimal range Lambda = 1 between 200 mV and 800 mV (optimum is around 450 mV). If the lambda increases with a lean mixture (too much air), the voltage drops. With a rich mixture with a lambda below one, the voltage rises above 800 mV. In the area around Lambda = 1, the voltage curve is not linear and jumps suddenly depending on the air-fuel mixture. This does not enable exact control of the fuel mixture, but it does enable continuous control. This two-point lambda control increases the fuel quantity as soon as the voltage falls below 100 mV until the sensor voltage rises to approx. 800 mV. On average, the ideal 450 mV is achieved by periodically alternating between a rich and lean mixture. 2. Resistance step sensor - titanium dioxide lambda sensor Lambda sensors with a semiconductive ceramic made of titanium dioxide are also step sensors, although they are much less common than Nernst sensors. Titanium dioxide has the property that the electrical resistance changes in proportion to the oxygen content in the exhaust gas. At high O2 concentrations, the sensor material has a high resistance and becomes increasingly conductive the richer the mixture becomes. A characteristic jump can also be measured when changing from a rich to a lean mixture. Resistance sensors do not require reference air and work at an operating temperature of approx. 700 degrees Celsius. 3. Broadband lambda sensor Broadband lambda sensors were developed because step sensors lead to oscillation around the specified target value of lambda=1. They not only allow operation around the stoichiometric operating point lambda=1, but also measure the exact value. This information can be used by direct injection petrol engines, for example, to optimize the fuel mixture for other target values. If the load is low, for example, a lambda value slightly above one can be targeted to save fuel. Broadband lambda sensors are much more complex in their structure than step sensors and consist of several layers (pump cell, diffusion channel, Nernst cell) and an integrated heater. The heater is important because lambda sensors only work very slowly at temperatures below 300 degrees Celsius, e.g. during cold starts. The optimal operating temperature is between 550 and 700 degrees Celsius, depending on the model, with broadband lambda sensors operating at temperatures as high as 100 to 200 degrees hotter. Broadband lambda sensors are also available with their own controller, which controls the sensor and passes the signal on to the engine control unit.The advantage is that different signal outputs can usually be programmed individually. For example, a broadband lambda sensor can often simulate the voltage signal of a step sensor and at the same time output the specific lambda value elsewhere. These values ??can be relevant in the tuning area. Causes and symptoms of a defective lambda sensor Like any component in a car, a lambda sensor can break. Often the cause of the defect is too high temperatures, e.g. due to faulty injectors or incorrectly set ignition timing. Chemical stress and mechanical loads, e.g. due to vibrations in the vehicle, can also cause damage. A damaged lambda sensor is initially barely noticeable to the driver and can result in significantly higher fuel consumption (approx. 15%!) and greater environmental pollution because the catalytic converter can no longer work optimally. Clouds of smoke escaping from the exhaust are also possible, and of course corresponding messages are given by integrated on-board diagnostics. Since the exhaust gases are no longer measured, the engine control will usually enrich the fuel-air mixture and operate in emergency mode. However, if the lambda sensor is defective, the engine may also run unevenly and misfire. As part of a general inspection or emissions test, a broken lambda sensor is always considered a defect. Changing the lambda sensor To change the lambda sensor, it is advisable to visit a workshop, as the car has to be placed on a lift to reach the exhaust system. The sensor is usually very tight and should be cleaned on the base with a wire brush before being unscrewed. If the old lambda sensor is definitely being replaced, you can also use rust remover. Disconnect the plug and unscrew the lambda sensor. After the base has been thoroughly cleaned, the new lambda sensor can be inserted. Since it has to be tightened with torque, there are lambda sensor socket wrenches that have a recess for the cable. After the change, the error codes in the control unit must be deleted. In the video we demonstrate the procedure using a VW Golf IV as an example. Continue driving with a defective lambda sensor or replace it immediately? Since the engine itself is not affected by a defective lambda sensor, apart from perhaps increased wear, it is theoretically possible to simply continue driving. Nevertheless, it is not advisable to ignore a defective lambda sensor. Perhaps a cable has just come loose or the sensor is clogged and needs to be cleaned? Replacing the lambda sensor in a car workshop is relatively inexpensive and costs between 40 and 200 euros. This investment quickly pays for itself through the fuel savings. Those who are confident enough to replace a defective lambda sensor themselves can save even more. A suitable lambda sensor from brand manufacturers such as NGK,Of course, you can buy Bosch or Febi cheaply in our online shop."
Exhaust system	Assembly parts			"Buy assembly parts for the exhaust system cheaply A wide variety of parts are required for the assembly of components of the exhaust system. Be it to connect pipes or to connect silencers and catalytic converters. At kfzteile24 you will find all the seals, brackets, clamps, screws and nuts, springs, rubber strips, welding sleeves and clamps you need for your car. As a specialist in the trade in car accessories and spare parts, we usually have the assembly parts in stock and can therefore deliver particularly quickly. Purchased goods are usually dispatched within 24 hours. In addition to low prices and fast delivery, quality is important to our customers. kfzteile24's in-house quality management regularly checks the parts. See for yourself and order without risk, because we offer a full 365-day right of return. If you have any questions about the exhaust system and the appropriate assembly parts, you can contact our friendly and competent support team. We will be happy to advise you. a universal pipe connector Suitable assembly parts always in stock Nothing is more annoying than suddenly being faced with the problem of missing assembly parts when installing new components. We therefore recommend that you check seals, screws and clamps in good time and order them immediately if required. Even when making modifications, you should always have access to a well-stocked spare parts warehouse in order to be able to replace springs, clamps, brackets or welding sleeves, for example. When installing the exhaust system, care must be taken to ensure that all parts are firmly connected to the body and that there are no leaks. If exhaust gases get into the interior, there is an acute danger for the occupants and of course action must be taken."
Exhaust system	Resonator			"The resonator for the exhaust is similar in function to a silencer for the exhaust system, but is not generally used for pure damping. The primary task of the resonator, however, is to reduce certain frequencies and amplify others as part of the sound design in order to give the car a powerful sound. The sound energy to be modulated is a result of the combustion process, in which sound pressure builds up explosively and runs through the exhaust system. Installed parts such as the catalytic converter and of course the silencer in particular reduce this energy. The perceptible noise at the tailpipe must not exceed the legal maximum of 74 dB(A) or 75 dB(A). How the resonator works The resonator gets its name from the physical principle of resonance used and is fairly inconspicuous from the outside. It is usually a pot-bellied pipe with a perforated exhaust pipe inside. The sound moves through the pipe and interference occurs due to the holes and the reflection of the side walls. This simply means that the sound vibrations overlap. This overlap causes the peaks and troughs of the vibrations to collide. They can strengthen or cancel each other out. A resonator is designed in such a way that the desired frequencies are amplified and the undesirable frequencies are dampened. When carrying out any work on the exhaust system, make sure that you comply with the legal regulations. Unauthorized modifications will invalidate your vehicle's operating license."
Exhaust system	Tube			"As a specialist in the trade of spare parts and car accessories, kfzteile24 also offers numerous different pipes for the exhaust system. These are pre-formed, elongated hollow bodies that are tailored to the respective vehicle. The pipes have angles, bends and curves that match the vehicle and connect the engine to the mufflers and catalytic converters. Exhaust pipes are usually supplied without assembly parts, which you should buy separately or as an assembly kit. Modern exhaust systems are usually installed in the car as individual parts, with all components welded together. If the catalytic converter or muffler then needs to be replaced, a metal saw is used to remove the parts to be replaced. The spare parts are inserted and reconnected to the rest of the exhaust system using pipes and clamps. The leak tightness must be checked, as no pollutants must get into the interior of the car."
Exhaust system	Soot/particle filter			"Soot particle filter for your diesel (diesel particle filter) Since soot particles are produced when diesel is burned, soot particle filters are used to separate the small solid particles from the exhaust gas stream. At kfzteile24 you will find high-quality filters from brand manufacturers such as Walker, HJS or Twintec, which reliably remove even the tiniest particles. First-class filters are necessary because the soot particles that are produced are getting smaller and smaller thanks to modern injection systems. This increases the efficiency of the diesel engine, but on the other hand it poses a health risk. The particles produced are so small that they can penetrate cell tissue when inhaled and are responsible for cancer and circulatory diseases. Soot particle filter for an Opel Vectra Combustion of diesel Diesel is a mixture of different hydrocarbons (CHn), which react with two oxygen atoms (O2) when burned under theoretically optimal conditions. The result of complete combustion would therefore only be carbon dioxide (CO2) and water (H2O). However, this ideal state is not achieved in practice because, despite operation with an excess of air, there is a lack of oxygen in some areas. This can be explained by imagining a fuel droplet. While the outer edge burns completely, too little oxygen reaches the inside of the droplet. The reaction results in compounds that are sometimes even toxic. This produces carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NOx), unburned hydrocarbons (CH) and solid particles (PM for particulate matter). The larger the droplets, the less efficient the combustion. Reasons for particle formation in diesel Due to incomplete combustion, a soot core forms inside a fuel droplet, to which other residues such as hydrocarbons and sulfates attach themselves. Soot particles are therefore a sign that the diesel engine is working inefficiently. This can have several causes. Cold start Injected fuel droplets immediately begin to evaporate on the surface due to the heat in the cylinder. If the temperature is too low during a cold start, the droplets are larger and the diesel produces soot. Full load Under full load, too much fuel is injected into the combustion chamber in relation to the air. There is therefore too little oxygen available in certain places to prevent sooting. Clogged air filter If the air filter is clogged, too little air reaches the combustion chamber. The consequences are similar to those of full load operation: too little oxygen in certain places and sooting of the diesel engine. Defective injectors/injection nozzles The diesel is pressed through tiny nozzles (approx. 0.15 mm) at high pressure (approx. 2500 bar) and thus atomized. If the nozzles are defective, atomization does not work and the droplets are too large. Wear in the intake system or on the cylinder can also cause damage.as well as insufficient compression or improper tuning can promote the formation of particles. In any case, an appropriate soot/particle filter helps to keep the burden on people and the environment as low as possible."
Exhaust system	"Silencer (pre-, middle-, end-)"			"The exhaust system of a car usually consists of the exhaust manifold, the catalytic converter, corresponding lambda sensors, exhaust pipes, silencers and finally the tailpipe. You can buy all parts cheaply online in our shop. As a specialist in the trade in car accessories and spare parts for cars, kfzteile24, like its customers, places value on quality and therefore works with well-known brand manufacturers such as Walker or Bosal. The particularly cheap alternatives in the bargain category also meet all requirements and are regularly checked. Because we are confident in our offer, we grant a full 365-day right of return. This means you can buy silencers safely and conveniently from home without any risk. Thanks to a large central warehouse, silencers are usually dispatched within 24 hours of ordering. The fast delivery is not only a pleasure for private customers but also for car workshops, breakdown services and petrol stations. If you have any questions about the exhaust system in general or silencers in particular, do not hesitate to contact our friendly and competent support. Our support team will be happy to help you during service hours on 030 / 40 50 400. Silencers from Walker Why are silencers necessary on cars? Exhaust gases that leave the combustion chamber after the valves open are under pressure and would fizzle out with a loud bang without a silencer. The resulting sound level, measured in decibels, is around 100 dB(A) and thus only slightly below the human pain threshold of 120 dB(A). However, as persistent noise has been proven to make people ill, even below the pain level, the legislature has issued limit values. For cars, it is currently 74 dB(A) or 75 dB(A) for direct injection diesel engines. Silencers are used to reduce the sound level of the exhaust gases. Depending on their position in the exhaust system, they are referred to as front silencers, middle silencers or rear silencers. As silencers slow down the flow of exhaust gases and create back pressure, they can have a negative effect on the performance of an engine. For this reason, the development of silencers is not only focused on maximum noise reduction. The aim is also to keep power losses as low as possible. Silencers are also optimized with a view to the sound design of a car. How does a silencer work? When you buy a silencer, you usually only see a pipe with a bulbous middle section. In this middle section, the vibrations and thus the volume are reduced using various processes. This makes use of the properties of waves, among other things, to be able to overlap and cancel each other out. The principle of interference is closely related to the way reflection silencers work. Absorption silencers, on the other hand, direct the sound energy into a porous material,where it is ""swallowed"" or converted into heat through friction. Both principles can also be combined in order to cover the desired frequency spectrum. Reflection The sound waves are blocked by obstacles and reflected back. The deflection causes the sound waves to overlap and interference occurs. The aim is of course to cancel out the wave amplitudes and not to reinforce each other. Resonance A silencer is a system capable of oscillation and can be caused to oscillate by incoming sound waves. The components that are now oscillating should generate sound waves directed in opposite directions so that the amplitudes also cancel each other out. Interference The desired interference effect can also be created by diverting part of the exhaust gas flow. The detour causes the sound wave to shift in comparison to the original flow. If both waves meet again at the end of the silencer, they can reduce each other. Absorption The principle of absorption works completely differently. A porous material absorbs the sound energy but is not itself caused to oscillate. Instead, friction generates heat and the sound energy decreases by the corresponding amount. Rock wool or glass fibers are used, for example. Depending on the damping concept, absorption silencers and reflection silencers are either combined to form a single silencer or are used in separate silencers. Like all parts of the exhaust system, silencers must be absolutely airtight so that no exhaust gases can enter the passenger compartment and the desired effect is achieved.Rock wool or glass fibers. Depending on the damping concept, absorption silencers and reflection silencers are either combined to form a single silencer or are used in separate silencers. Like all parts of the exhaust system, silencers must be absolutely airtight so that no exhaust gases can enter the passenger compartment and the desired effect is achieved.Rock wool or glass fibers. Depending on the damping concept, absorption silencers and reflection silencers are either combined to form a single silencer or are used in separate silencers. Like all parts of the exhaust system, silencers must be absolutely airtight so that no exhaust gases can enter the passenger compartment and the desired effect is achieved."
Exhaust system	Sports silencer			"If an exhaust cover is not enough to improve the look of your car, you can go for a sports silencer. The tuning parts promise a rich engine sound and underline the sporty appearance of a car. Since the car naturally sounds significantly different after fitting a sports silencer compared to a standard vehicle, sports silencers are delivered with an operating permit for vehicle parts. Depending on whether the installation instructions specify this or not, a change approval may also be required or the operating permit must always be carried with you. Sports silencers with an EC operating permit must have a so-called E-test mark clearly visible. If this is the case, the operating permit for the sports silencer does not need to be presented separately during a police check. Oval sports rear silencer from JOM Sports silencer from JOM with double tailpipe Function of a sports silencer Sports silencers replace the factory rear silencers and are designed in such a way that an aggressive, sporty and dynamic sound is created by absorbing and reflecting the sound waves. Their job is not to completely minimize noise, but to filter out certain frequencies. Retrofitting a sports silencer also improves the look, as double-pipe covers and oval or square end pipes are possible. Sports silencers can theoretically also increase the performance of the engine, as they are often designed so that the exhaust gas can leave the exhaust with as little back pressure as possible. The engine therefore has to work less against the exhaust pressure or back pressure. However, in order for this potential 3-5% increase in performance to take effect, the entire exhaust system must be designed for high performance. However, retrofitting just the sports silencer does not increase the horsepower, as the cross-sections of the upstream components and thus the flow behavior of the exhaust gas are not affected."
Exhaust system	turbocharger			"The principle of the turbocharger, also known as an exhaust gas turbocharger or turbo for short, is relatively simple and has been around since 1905. The pressure and kinetic energy of the exhaust gases are used to increase the performance and efficiency of an internal combustion engine. kfzteile24 works closely with the German turbocharger sales partners Motair and BTS Turbo, so you can find all turbocharger brands such as Garret, Schwitzer, Mitsubishi, Holset or IHI with us. The know-how of the series manufacturers is reflected in the quality of the turbochargers and benefits you. A turbocharger from Motair Turbochargers increase the performance of internal combustion engines Structure and function of a turbocharger A turbocharger basically consists of a turbine wheel that drives a compressor wheel via a shaft. This so-called rotor is the proverbial linchpin of a turbocharger and reaches 50,000 - 400,000 rpm depending on the version. The pressure and kinetic energy of the exhaust gases flowing out of the engine are partially converted by the turbine wheel into a rotary motion, which in turn enables the compressor wheel in the intake tract to compress the air there. The advantage of compressed air is the larger air mass, so that more fuel can be burned and the engine's performance can be increased. However, the compression of the fresh gases is accompanied by a warming of the air, similar to a compressor, so that the temperature of the charge air must be reduced by an intercooler in order to achieve the desired increase in performance. Turbocharger Turbo lag and boost pressure control of a turbocharger A turbocharger usually only has a noticeable effect at medium and high speeds and often reacts with a slight delay to rapid changes in the accelerator pedal position. The reason for this is the mass inertia of the exhaust gases, which cannot follow rapid load changes. In contrast to compressor systems, however, turbochargers work with almost no loss, since the necessary drive energy is practically waste anyway. A compressor, on the other hand, can provide the excess pressure of the charge air even at low speeds, but draws the power directly from the engine (via toothed belts, V-ribbed belts, timing chains or gears). Turbocharger systems, however, achieve a higher level of efficiency overall. However, since the boost pressure increases depending on the speed, the exhaust turbocharger must be regulated in order not to exceed the permissible boost pressures and endanger the engine, and also not to operate the turbocharger at impermissible speeds and protect its bearings. Boost pressure valves are used to regulate the boost pressure, which work electro-pneumatically using a control unit. If the pressure becomes too high, a bypass opens, which directs some of the exhaust gases past the turbine wheel.The bypass valve and its components are subject to heavy loads and are prone to failure. In order to build up boost pressure as quickly as possible even at low speeds, so-called VTG (variable turbine geometry) turbochargers are used. The ability to adjust the guide vanes allows the boost pressure to build up optimally and thus counteracts the so-called turbo lag. Overloading in the high speed range can also be prevented."
Axle suspension	Steering knuckle			"The steering knuckle in modern vehicles is based on a steering pin and a steering knuckle, although the steering knuckle naturally differs depending on the axle design. If it is installed at the end of a steering axle, the steering knuckle is movable, whereas it is rigidly constructed on an unsteered axle. Due to its function, the steering knuckle must regularly withstand heavy loads and is therefore usually made of tempered steel and designed to last the life of a car. Despite the robust material, damage to the steering knuckle cannot be ruled out. Steering knuckle for a VW Polo Signs of a defective steering knuckle A clear counter-reaction can be felt in the front wheels. There are increased vibrations while driving. Unusual noises can be heard when driving or braking. Knocking noises can occur directly from the suspension. During steering, the wheels show a reduced reaction or even no reaction at all. The front wheels start to wobble when cornering. How is the condition of the steering knuckles checked? If you want to check the condition of the steering knuckles, the car has to be put on a lift. Move the wheel by hand. If the wheel shows play without a scraping noise, the problem is not a defective wheel bearing but probably a damaged steering knuckle. How do you replace the steering knuckle? To replace the steering knuckle, the car has to be lifted up. For safety reasons, a lift is recommended, with the handbrake released. The next step is to remove the wheel before the ABS sensor can be removed. Of course, the brake hose and brake caliper must not be in the way when replacing the steering knuckle. To do this, first loosen the fastening screws on the brake caliper and brake hose before the wheel tachometer and brake caliper can be removed. The brake disc is also removed to gain free access to the steering knuckle. Now it gets serious. To replace the steering knuckle, the locker, the knuckle joint nut and the joint must be removed. The outer joint of the drive shaft is also removed. Only now can the defective steering knuckle be removed. The new steering knuckle is then installed in the reverse order of the steps. We recommend that you have this work carried out by a qualified workshop."
Axle suspension	kingpin			"Buy bushings for steering knuckle pins cheaply online The steering knuckle of a steering axle is mounted so that it can rotate so that the car can drive around corners. Depending on the axle design, the steering knuckle pin acts as the axis of rotation of the steering knuckle and connects it to the bearing bracket. The steering knuckle pin is fixed in the bearing bracket using bushings. The rigid construction made of sturdy materials rarely needs to be replaced, but can corrode over time due to dirt and water. The movement of the steering knuckle becomes stiff. If the steering knuckle needs to be replaced, it is recommended that the steering knuckle pin and its bearing bushings are also replaced. Since the bushings are usually pressed into the bearing bracket, this work can usually only be carried out with special tools in a specialist workshop."
Axle suspension	Steering knuckle repair kit			"Depending on the car, working on the wheel suspension or the steering knuckle pin can be time-consuming and costly. For this reason, it is sensible to replace all parts when a repair is due. An appropriate repair kit ensures that you have the right components on hand. The scope of delivery varies considerably from car to car, because the designs of the axle are not identical. In principle, however, repair kits for the wheel suspension and repair kits for the steering knuckle pin can be distinguished. Steering set from Febi Bilstein Change in the specialist workshop Problems with the axle suspension, the joints and bearings usually manifest themselves in spongy driving behavior. If rolling bearings are damaged, grinding noises can also occur. In these cases, have the wheel bearings, the steering kingpins, the axle bodies and joints as well as the steering arms checked and replaced. You can buy the required parts from us cheaply as a repair kit, but work on the wheel suspension should always be left to qualified specialists. Finally, after replacing the suspension parts, the track must also be readjusted. In addition, some work steps can only be carried out with the appropriate special tools."
Axle suspension	Axle carrier / axle body			"The subframe is part of the axle suspension and is known by many different names. The component is also referred to as the axle body, axle carrier, subframe or subframe. It serves as a fastening point for the wheel suspension, but also for the engine, transmission or differential. The subframe is either rigidly bolted to the body as a so-called integral carrier or connected to the structure via stable rubberized bearings. The bearings serve to dampen and prevent the transmission of vibrations. This increases comfort and also reduces noise within the passenger compartment. Bearings for the axle body of a VW Golf 4 by f.becker_line Subframe bearings by Meyle for an Opel Corsa Replacing worn bearings The bearings of the axle carrier can wear out over time due to mechanical stress and of course external influences (especially water). The rubber becomes brittle and cracked and the sleeve can rust. Damage to the subframe bearings is usually noticeable through unusual rumbling and louder noise. You can buy the bearings yourself cheaply to match your car, but installation is usually complex and should be carried out by a qualified specialist workshop."
Axle suspension	Article search via graphic			"The axle suspension is a complex system that varies greatly from car to car and consists of many individual components. These are sometimes called differently, so that laypeople in particular are sometimes confused about which part is actually defective. To make it easier for you to search for spare parts for the axle suspension, you can often find suitable replacements at kfzteile24 after entering the vehicle data, even without knowing the exact name. In the schematic representation, you can see where the respective component belongs and in this way you can accurately select axle parts that are suitable for your car."
Axle suspension	Strut/wishbone brace			"The strut brace is a stiffening element of the body that is usually used in combination with a sports chassis. The strut brace prevents or suppresses twisting, which leads to torsion of the body, especially when cornering quickly. The strut brace thus allows a sporty driving style and more direct steering. The strut brace is therefore enjoying increasing popularity, especially among tuning fans and motorsport enthusiasts. Function and structure of the strut brace A strut brace is usually made of steel or aluminum and creates a direct connection between the two strut domes of the front or rear axle. On the front axle, it usually runs directly over the engine and can also have a slightly curved shape to maintain sufficient distance. Strut braces can also be connected to other parts of the body and converge in the rear center of the engine compartment, for example. However, this often requires major conversion work. In addition to their actual function as body stiffeners, strut braces are of course also installed for visual reasons and for show purposes. However, it is only visible when the hood or trunk lid is open. A wishbone strut, which serves exactly the same purpose as the strut brace but is attached to the bottom of the wishbones, is not visible in everyday life. Installing a strut brace - does it make sense? What should you bear in mind? The body and chassis of a car are coordinated by the manufacturer and optimized with regard to driving comfort, driving dynamics and safety. However, the use of a subsequent sports chassis with corresponding lowering changes the forces acting. A strut brace supports the rigidity of the body in order to be able to handle the new loads. It is usually only screwed to the strut domes and, if necessary, cut to the appropriate length beforehand. When installing, you should ensure that the wheels are not loaded so that the preload does not cause the strut domes to crack under load. Do you have to register a strut brace? Strut braces do not generally have to be registered and are usually sold without the corresponding test certificates such as ABE or parts certificate. The background is the knowledge that the installation of a strut brace is not expected to pose a danger to road users. But be careful: if the strut brace is welded or other modifications are necessary, it is advisable to commission an expert inspector to carry out the inspection. Are there any disadvantages to installing a strut brace? Strut braces stiffen the body, which is perceived as pleasant in many driving situations. The straight-line running at high speeds is improved, as is the vehicle's responsiveness and steering when cornering.However, a strut brace can also have a negative impact on driving comfort depending on the surface. Paving stones have an even stronger impact and bumps or manhole covers can cause the car to bounce. If the strut brace is installed on the rear axle, this can also lead to unusual oversteering. Which strut brace is the right one? How much does a strut brace cost? Strut braces are available from around 50 euros. They are usually made of steel or aluminum, with steel being the harder material and stiffening the body even better. However, aluminum has the advantage of not rusting, which is particularly relevant for wishbone braces. At kfzteile24 we have numerous strut braces on offer, which we can usually ship within 1-2 working days. If the brace does not fit or does not meet your expectations in terms of driving behavior, you can simply return it to us within 365 days."
Axle suspension	Strut mount			
Axle suspension	Joints / ball joints			"The ball joint, together with the guide joint, creates the connection between the steering knuckle and the wishbone. The small components must be manufactured to be sufficiently stable to ensure that the wheels run smoothly and safely, even in dynamic driving situations. The joint on the lower wishbone is usually referred to as the ball joint because it supports the steering knuckle. The upper connecting joint, on the other hand, has no supporting function and is therefore referred to as the guide joint. A defective ball joint usually makes itself known by a banging, rattling noise. The problem occurs particularly when the car is driving on an uneven road or cobblestones. Ball joint from f.becker_line for a VW Golf IV with screw set Ball joint for a BMW 3 from Meyle Changing the ball joint Changing a ball joint is usually laborious and time-consuming. The wheel, brake calliper and brake disc often have to be removed and pressing or unscrewing the old ball joint from the steering knuckle and pressing or screwing on the new ball joint requires skill, strength, special tools (extractor, press-in tool, torque wrench) and endurance. The trick is above all to avoid damaging the steering knuckle or the new ball joint including the cuff or wishbone or guide joint. Depending on the manufacturer's instructions, an axle alignment may have to be carried out afterwards. The high level of effort is also the decisive cost driver, because the ball joint or guide joint itself can be bought cheaply online from kfzteile24. We still recommend leaving the replacement to a qualified specialist workshop."
Axle suspension	Handlebar / wishbone			"Function of the wheel suspension The wheel suspension or axle suspension serves as a connection between the body of a vehicle and its wheels. The forces acting on the individual parts are correspondingly high. The wheel suspension must therefore withstand static forces in the form of the vehicle's own weight plus payload and also absorb dynamic forces when accelerating or braking. Lateral forces when cornering must also not throw the car off course. The aim of the correct wheel suspension is therefore a stable wheel geometry that behaves in the desired way when compressing and rebounding. This ensures driving comfort and driving safety while minimizing tire wear. In order to be able to guide the respective wheel in the independent wheel suspension despite all the forces and movements acting on it, different control arms are used, which also transmit spring and damping forces. Depending on their direction of action, control arms are referred to as wishbones, longitudinal control arms, semi-trailing control arms and multi-link arms. Types of control arms Depending on the requirements and design, two-point, three-point or four-point control arms are used. The number of points indicates the number of connection points. Two-point control arms are also known as rod control arms and are often used as wishbones. They connect the wheel carrier to the body or the subframe. The composite bearing is made of rubber and metal. Three-point control arms or wishbones are more stable than rod control arms and are also often used as wishbones or semi-trailing arms. Four-point control arms or trapezoidal control arms are used in particular in commercial vehicles and consist of a solid middle section from which four control arms extend. This means that two control arms can be attached to the vehicle frame and two to the axle. Rod control arms for the axle suspension Wishbones Wishbones are called wishbones because they are installed transversely to the longitudinal axis of the vehicle. They guide the wheel carrier and transfer the transverse forces between the wheel and the body. To absorb acceleration and deceleration forces, wishbones are sometimes used. Trailing arms Trailing arms are installed parallel to the longitudinal axis of the car so that the track width and camber do not change when the wheels compress and rebound. They are generally not connected directly to the body in order to dampen vibrations and noise. Trailing arms Trailing arms are often triangular links that are slightly inclined both towards the transverse axis of the vehicle and towards the center of the vehicle. The shape of these angles changes the track and camber when the vehicle compresses and rebounds. Independent links An independent link axle consists of several rod links that are freely arranged in space. The aim is to compensate for elastic steering errors that occur when accelerating and braking and would turn the wheel out of the direction of travel.Replacing defective wishbones Defective wishbones often make themselves known through loud driving noises and ""spongy"" handling when steering. The cause is usually worn rubber bearings. Breakage of a handlebar is much rarer and far more dangerous. They usually do not announce themselves and happen due to material fatigue. In order to avoid life-threatening situations resulting from this, the condition of the handlebars should be checked regularly and quality should be taken into account when purchasing. The professional mechanics at kfzteile24 demonstrate how to replace a wishbone using a Golf 4 as an example. You can of course also buy the tools used in the video cheaply in our online shop. Please note that after every intervention in the suspension, an axle alignment in the workshop is necessary to prevent excessive wear on the tires. The axle geometry also determines the driving characteristics of the car."
Axle suspension	Wheel hub / wheel bearing			"A wheel hub is a component that ensures the connection between the rotating wheel and the stationary wheel suspension. It is either pushed onto a shaft, axle or pin or is mounted on a corresponding support. Depending on the vehicle manufacturer, the wheel hub is available as a compact bearing unit, which in addition to the actual wheel bearing also contains the ABS sensor and can only be replaced as a whole, or as individual components. The advantage of compact bearings is that they are comparatively easy to replace, but the entire unit must be replaced as soon as a defect occurs in one of the components. In addition to the wheel, the brakes are also mounted on the wheel hub. a wheel bearing set with wheel hub for a VW Golf IV a wheel bearing set from Meyle Structure and function of the wheel bearing A wheel bearing consists of an inner and an outer ring, between which there are rolling elements. The inner ring can rotate together with the wheel, while the outer ring is stationary. Either balls or cones are used as rolling elements, so a distinction is made between ball bearings and tapered roller bearings. The wheel bearing, as the core element of a wheel hub, is responsible for supporting and guiding the wheel and must therefore absorb all axial and radial forces. Radial forces are caused by rotational movement, among other things, and act at right angles to the longitudinal axis. They are generally less problematic for the wheel bearing than axial forces that act in the direction of the longitudinal axis, for example when cornering. Driving over curbs at an acute angle in particular places a great deal of strain on the wheel bearings. This can lead to running noises, which are noticeable as a humming sound. Replacing a defective wheel bearing A wheel bearing must run smoothly and offer as little resistance as possible so that the engine power can be converted into propulsion. Adequate lubrication is therefore important and is ensured by the manufacturer. It is designed for the service life of the wheel bearing and does not need to be checked by the driver. If running noises do occur, there is a defect that requires replacement. Defective wheel bearings can also be recognized by the heat generated by the increased friction within the bearing. In acute cases, you can see the uneven, jerky running of the wheel even when you turn it while it is jacked up. Depending on whether it is a compact bearing unit or not, the entire wheel hub is replaced or the bearing is pressed out of the hub. The new bearing is then pressed in. A process that should only be carried out by a qualified workshop."
Axle suspension	Wheel bolts			"In order to firmly and securely connect the wheels of a car to the wheel hub, three to five wheel bolts are usually required, depending on the vehicle type. Due to their shape and to distinguish them from wheel nuts, they are also called wheel bolts. In order to be able to transfer all the forces acting on the wheel when accelerating, braking or cornering, the force and form fit between the wheel hub and the rim must be guaranteed at all times. For this reason, steel rims often have a conical elevation in the area of ??the fastening holes that gives way elastically when the screw is tightened. The self-locking screw connection created in this way works in a similar way to expansion bolts. However, light alloy rims made of aluminum do not have such elastic molded parts. In order to still be able to create a secure connection, the through holes are often longer. The spring-acting, longer shaft length of the wheel bolts then results in a longer clamping length. Wheel bolt with ball collar from febi bilstein a set of wheel bolts for the C-Class from Mercedes-Benz Difference between rim bolts and stud bolts Rim bolts are the most common type of wheel fastening in Europe, while in Asia the rim is usually placed on stud bolts that are screwed into the wheel hub and protrude. The rim is then secured using wheel nuts. Converting wheel bolts to stud bolts with wheel nuts is conceivable in the tuning sector in order to be able to paint the nuts and thus accentuate them with color. Both wheel bolts and wheel nuts are often provided with a conical or ball collar that fits into a corresponding recess in the bore holes in the rim. When buying wheel bolts, make sure you get the right collar, otherwise the form fit is not guaranteed and the rim will be damaged. The thread diameter and the pitch of the thread must also correspond to the manufacturer's specifications."
Axle suspension	Tire pressure monitoring system			"Tire pressure monitoring system: Always keep an eye on the air pressure Since November 1, 2014, all new cars in accordance with ECE-R 64 have been required to be equipped with a tire pressure monitoring system (TPMS). This applies to both summer and winter tires. We will explain to you what a TPMS is, what types of tire pressure monitoring systems there are and what you should look out for when buying one. Why are tire pressure monitoring systems important? A tire pressure monitoring system ensures greater safety when driving and can prevent accidents by warning the driver when the tire pressure is too low. Tires can slowly and imperceptibly lose air pressure, especially on long journeys or when the vehicle is heavily loaded. Too little tire pressure has a negative effect on the stability of the vehicle and leads to poor handling when cornering. The braking distance is also significantly longer with low tire pressure. In addition, wear increases and the tires are more susceptible to damage. The correct tire pressure is not only important for road safety, it also has economic advantages. Low tire pressure increases the rolling resistance of the tires, which means the vehicle needs more fuel. Adequate tire pressure and thus low rolling resistance reduce fuel consumption - and that saves you money. With the right tire pressure thanks to TPMS, you also have to change your tires less often. And finally, a simple but important reason: If your TPMS is defective, you may not get a MOT. Even if your vehicle does not have a TPMS installed, but it would be possible for this type of vehicle, you may not get a MOT. For which cars is a TPMS mandatory? A tire pressure monitoring system is mandatory for all new cars first registered after November 1, 2014 and all models with type approval after November 1, 2012. If this applies to your vehicle, a TPMS should already be installed. If the first registration of your vehicle does not require a TPMS, you do not have to retrofit one. Nevertheless, it can't hurt to have your car retrofitted with a TPMS because of the increased safety. Types of tire pressure monitoring systems The tire pressure monitoring systems installed vary from manufacturer to manufacturer. Basically, a distinction is made between direct and indirect measuring tire pressure monitoring systems. Direct measuring TPMS With a direct measuring tire pressure monitoring system, the internal pressure and air temperature of the tires are measured by battery-operated sensors. These sensors are attached to each tire - usually near the valve. The data determined by the sensors is transmitted wirelessly in real time to the vehicle's control unit. The measurement of the data is very precise and informs you about even the smallest fluctuations. The advantages of a direct measuring TPMS:The driver receives precise measurements for each individual wheel. The measurement is quick and reliable and the system also detects gradual pressure loss. But there are also disadvantages: With a direct TPMS, each wheel needs its own sensor. This results in high costs. The price for the sensors per set of tires is around ?120-300. After five to eight years at the latest, the sensors are empty. Then the sensors have to be completely replaced. Indirectly measuring TPMS An indirectly measuring tire pressure control system monitors the tire pressure based on the rolling behavior of the tires. This is how it works: When the tire pressure decreases, the speed increases, which in turn is measured by the speed sensors on the wheels. The driver receives a notification that the changed speed is probably due to reduced air pressure. Since the speed sensors are used for various assistance systems anyway, they are installed in most modern cars anyway. The advantages of an indirectly measuring TPMS: There are no costs for additional sensors, as the indirect system uses the existing speed sensors. The disadvantages: The TPMS does not measure precise data. An indirect TPMS cannot tell you which tire is losing air. If the system issues a warning, you must therefore check all tires. The system only reacts to the change in air pressure with a delay. A directly measuring TPMS reports significantly faster and more precisely. The disadvantages of the indirectly measuring TPMS therefore outweigh the advantages. Most car manufacturers therefore use directly measuring tire pressure control systems. This is what you should bear in mind It is not immediately clear which tire pressure control system has been installed. If your vehicle is equipped with a direct TPMS, the display on the dashboard shows exact values ??for the tire pressure of the individual tires. With indirect systems, usually only a warning light lights up. You can find out which TPMS your vehicle has from the vehicle manufacturer or dealer. The purpose of the TPMS is to warn you of low tire pressure so that you can react in time. Therefore, familiarize yourself with the operating instructions for the TPMS beforehand. This way you know how your vehicle's technology measures the tire pressure while driving. After changing wheels or fitting tires, indirectly measuring TPMS must be reinitialized. You can also find out how this works in the operating instructions. With directly measuring TPMS, the sensors are checked and serviced in the workshop when the tires are changed. Due to the additional work involved in initializing and checking the tire pressure control systems, you should leave wheel and tire changes to a professional. Despite the practical TPMS, you should still regularly check the tire pressure yourself.The measurement is quick and reliable and the system also detects gradual pressure loss. But there are also disadvantages: With a direct TPMS, each wheel needs its own sensor. This results in high costs. The price for the sensors per set of tires is around ?120-300. After five to eight years at the latest, the sensors' batteries are empty. Then the sensors have to be completely replaced. Indirectly measuring TPMS An indirectly measuring tire pressure control system monitors the tire pressure based on the rolling behavior of the tires. This is how it works: When the tire pressure decreases, the speed increases, which in turn is measured by the speed sensors on the wheels. The driver receives a notification that the changed speed is probably due to reduced air pressure. Since the speed sensors are used for various assistance systems anyway, they are installed in most modern cars anyway. The advantages of an indirectly measuring TPMS: There are no costs for additional sensors, since the indirect system uses the existing speed sensors. The disadvantages: The TPMS does not measure precise data. An indirect TPMS cannot tell you which tire is losing air. If the system issues a warning, you must check all tires. The system only reacts to the change in air pressure with a delay. A direct-measuring TPMS reports significantly faster and more precisely. The disadvantages of an indirect-measuring TPMS therefore outweigh the advantages. Most car manufacturers therefore use direct-measuring tire pressure monitoring systems. This is what you should bear in mind It is not immediately clear which tire pressure monitoring system has been installed. If your vehicle is equipped with a direct TPMS, the display on the dashboard shows exact values ??for the tire pressure of the individual tires. With indirect systems, usually only a warning light lights up. You can find out which TPMS your vehicle has from the vehicle manufacturer or dealer. The purpose of the TPMS is to warn you of low tire pressure so that you can react in time. Therefore, familiarize yourself with the operating instructions for the TPMS beforehand. This will tell you how your vehicle's technology measures tire pressure while driving. After changing wheels or fitting tires, indirectly measuring TPMS must be reinitialized. You can also find out how this works in the operating instructions. With directly measuring TPMS, the sensors are checked and serviced in the workshop when the tires are changed. Due to the additional work involved in initializing and checking the tire pressure control systems, you should leave wheel and tire changes to a professional. Despite the practical TPMS, you should still regularly check the tire pressure yourself.The measurement is quick and reliable and the system also detects gradual pressure loss. But there are also disadvantages: With a direct TPMS, each wheel needs its own sensor. This results in high costs. The price for the sensors per set of tires is around ?120-300. After five to eight years at the latest, the sensors' batteries are empty. Then the sensors have to be completely replaced. Indirectly measuring TPMS An indirectly measuring tire pressure control system monitors the tire pressure based on the rolling behavior of the tires. This is how it works: When the tire pressure decreases, the speed increases, which in turn is measured by the speed sensors on the wheels. The driver receives a notification that the changed speed is probably due to reduced air pressure. Since the speed sensors are used for various assistance systems anyway, they are installed in most modern cars anyway. The advantages of an indirectly measuring TPMS: There are no costs for additional sensors, since the indirect system uses the existing speed sensors. The disadvantages: The TPMS does not measure precise data. An indirect TPMS cannot tell you which tire is losing air. If the system issues a warning, you must check all tires. The system only reacts to the change in air pressure with a delay. A direct-measuring TPMS reports significantly faster and more precisely. The disadvantages of an indirect-measuring TPMS therefore outweigh the advantages. Most car manufacturers therefore use direct-measuring tire pressure monitoring systems. This is what you should bear in mind It is not immediately clear which tire pressure monitoring system has been installed. If your vehicle is equipped with a direct TPMS, the display on the dashboard shows exact values ??for the tire pressure of the individual tires. With indirect systems, usually only a warning light lights up. You can find out which TPMS your vehicle has from the vehicle manufacturer or dealer. The purpose of the TPMS is to warn you of low tire pressure so that you can react in time. Therefore, familiarize yourself with the operating instructions for the TPMS beforehand. This will tell you how your vehicle's technology measures tire pressure while driving. After changing wheels or fitting tires, indirectly measuring TPMS must be reinitialized. You can also find out how this works in the operating instructions. With directly measuring TPMS, the sensors are checked and serviced in the workshop when the tires are changed. Due to the additional work involved in initializing and checking the tire pressure control systems, you should leave wheel and tire changes to a professional. Despite the practical TPMS, you should still regularly check the tire pressure yourself.With a direct TPMS, each wheel needs its own sensor. This results in high costs. The price for the sensors per set of tires is around ?120-300. After five to eight years at the latest, the sensors' batteries are empty. Then the sensors must be completely replaced. Indirectly measuring TPMS An indirectly measuring tire pressure control system monitors the tire pressure based on the rolling behavior of the tires. This is how it works: When the tire pressure decreases, the speed increases, which in turn is measured by the speed sensors on the wheels. The driver receives a notification that the changed speed is probably due to reduced air pressure. Since the speed sensors are used for various assistance systems anyway, they are installed in most modern cars anyway. The advantages of an indirectly measuring TPMS: There are no costs for additional sensors, since the indirect system uses the speed sensors already present. The disadvantages: The TPMS does not measure precise data. An indirect TPMS cannot tell you which tire is losing air. So if the system issues a warning, you have to check all tires. The system only reacts to the change in air pressure with a delay. A direct-measuring TPMS reports much faster and more precisely. The disadvantages of an indirect-measuring TPMS outweigh the advantages. Most car manufacturers therefore use direct-measuring tire pressure monitoring systems. This is what you should bear in mind It is not immediately clear which tire pressure monitoring system has been installed. If your vehicle is equipped with a direct TPMS, the display on the dashboard shows exact values ??for the tire pressure of the individual tires. With an indirect system, usually only a warning light lights up. You can find out which TPMS your vehicle has from the vehicle manufacturer or dealer. The purpose of the TPMS is to warn you of low tire pressure so that you can react in time. Therefore, familiarize yourself with the operating instructions for the TPMS beforehand. This will tell you how your vehicle's technology measures tire pressure while driving. After changing wheels or fitting tires, indirectly measuring TPMS must be reinitialized. You can also find out how this works in the operating instructions. With direct-measuring TPMS, the sensors are checked and maintained in the workshop when the tires are changed. Due to the additional work involved in initializing and checking the tire pressure monitoring systems, you should leave wheel and tire changes to a professional. Despite the practical TPMS, you should still regularly check the tire pressure yourself.With a direct TPMS, each wheel needs its own sensor. This results in high costs. The price for the sensors per set of tires is around ?120-300. After five to eight years at the latest, the sensors' batteries are empty. Then the sensors must be completely replaced. Indirectly measuring TPMS An indirectly measuring tire pressure control system monitors the tire pressure based on the rolling behavior of the tires. This is how it works: When the tire pressure decreases, the speed increases, which in turn is measured by the speed sensors on the wheels. The driver receives a notification that the changed speed is probably due to reduced air pressure. Since the speed sensors are used for various assistance systems anyway, they are installed in most modern cars anyway. The advantages of an indirectly measuring TPMS: There are no costs for additional sensors, since the indirect system uses the speed sensors already present. The disadvantages: The TPMS does not measure precise data. An indirect TPMS cannot tell you which tire is losing air. So if the system issues a warning, you have to check all tires. The system only reacts to the change in air pressure with a delay. A direct-measuring TPMS reports much faster and more precisely. The disadvantages of an indirect-measuring TPMS outweigh the advantages. Most car manufacturers therefore use direct-measuring tire pressure monitoring systems. This is what you should bear in mind It is not immediately clear which tire pressure monitoring system has been installed. If your vehicle is equipped with a direct TPMS, the display on the dashboard shows exact values ??for the tire pressure of the individual tires. With an indirect system, usually only a warning light lights up. You can find out which TPMS your vehicle has from the vehicle manufacturer or dealer. The purpose of the TPMS is to warn you of low tire pressure so that you can react in time. Therefore, familiarize yourself with the operating instructions for the TPMS beforehand. This will tell you how your vehicle's technology measures tire pressure while driving. After changing wheels or fitting tires, indirectly measuring TPMS must be reinitialized. You can also find out how this works in the operating instructions. With direct-measuring TPMS, the sensors are checked and maintained in the workshop when the tires are changed. Due to the additional work involved in initializing and checking the tire pressure monitoring systems, you should leave wheel and tire changes to a professional. Despite the practical TPMS, you should still regularly check the tire pressure yourself.Indirectly measuring TPMS An indirectly measuring tire pressure control system monitors the tire pressure based on the rolling behavior of the tires. This is how it works: When the tire pressure decreases, the speed increases, which in turn is measured by the speed sensors on the wheels. The driver receives a notification that the changed speed is probably due to reduced air pressure. Since the speed sensors are used for various assistance systems anyway, they are installed in most modern cars. The advantages of an indirectly measuring TPMS: There are no costs for additional sensors, since the indirect system uses the speed sensors already present. The disadvantages: The TPMS does not measure precise data. An indirect TPMS cannot tell you which tire is losing air. If the system issues a warning, you must therefore check all tires. The system only reacts to the changed air pressure with a delay. A directly measuring TPMS reports significantly faster and more precisely. The disadvantages of the indirectly measuring TPMS therefore outweigh the advantages. Most car manufacturers therefore use directly measuring tire pressure control systems. This is what you should bear in mind It is not immediately apparent which tire pressure monitoring system has been installed. If your vehicle is equipped with a direct TPMS, the display on the dashboard shows exact values ??for the tire pressure of each tire. With an indirect system, usually only a warning light lights up. You can find out which TPMS your vehicle has from the vehicle manufacturer or dealer. The purpose of the TPMS is to warn you of low tire pressure so that you can react in time. Therefore, familiarize yourself with the operating instructions for the TPMS beforehand. This will tell you how your vehicle's technology measures tire pressure while driving. After changing wheels or fitting tires, indirectly measuring TPMS must be reinitialized. You can also find out how this works in the operating instructions. With directly measuring TPMS, the sensors are checked and serviced in the workshop when the tires are changed. Due to the additional work involved in initializing and checking the tire pressure monitoring systems, you should leave changing wheels and tires to a professional. Despite the practical TPMS, you should still check the tire pressure yourself on a regular basis.Indirectly measuring TPMS An indirectly measuring tire pressure control system monitors the tire pressure based on the rolling behavior of the tires. This is how it works: When the tire pressure decreases, the speed increases, which in turn is measured by the speed sensors on the wheels. The driver receives a notification that the changed speed is probably due to reduced air pressure. Since the speed sensors are used for various assistance systems anyway, they are installed in most modern cars. The advantages of an indirectly measuring TPMS: There are no costs for additional sensors, since the indirect system uses the existing speed sensors. The disadvantages: The TPMS does not measure precise data. An indirect TPMS cannot tell you which tire is losing air. If the system issues a warning, you must therefore check all tires. The system only reacts to the changed air pressure with a delay. A directly measuring TPMS reports significantly faster and more precisely. The disadvantages of the indirectly measuring TPMS therefore outweigh the advantages. Most car manufacturers therefore use directly measuring tire pressure control systems. This is what you should bear in mind It is not immediately apparent which tire pressure monitoring system has been installed. If your vehicle is equipped with a direct TPMS, the display on the dashboard shows exact values ??for the tire pressure of each tire. With an indirect system, usually only a warning light lights up. You can find out which TPMS your vehicle has from the vehicle manufacturer or dealer. The purpose of the TPMS is to warn you of low tire pressure so that you can react in time. Therefore, familiarize yourself with the operating instructions for the TPMS beforehand. This will tell you how your vehicle's technology measures tire pressure while driving. After changing wheels or fitting tires, indirectly measuring TPMS must be reinitialized. You can also find out how this works in the operating instructions. With directly measuring TPMS, the sensors are checked and serviced in the workshop when the tires are changed. Due to the additional work involved in initializing and checking the tire pressure monitoring systems, you should leave changing wheels and tires to a professional. Despite the practical TPMS, you should still check the tire pressure yourself on a regular basis.The advantages of an indirectly measuring TPMS: There are no costs for additional sensors, as the indirect system uses the speed sensors that are already there. The disadvantages: The TPMS does not measure precise data. An indirect TPMS cannot tell you which tire is losing air. If the system issues a warning, you must therefore check all tires. The system only reacts to the change in air pressure with a delay. A directly measuring TPMS reports much faster and more precisely. The disadvantages of an indirectly measuring TPMS therefore outweigh the advantages. Most car manufacturers therefore use directly measuring tire pressure control systems. This is what you should bear in mind It is not immediately clear which tire pressure control system has been installed. If your vehicle is equipped with a direct TPMS, the display on the dashboard shows exact values ??for the tire pressure of the individual tires. With an indirect system, a warning light usually only lights up. You can find out which TPMS your vehicle has from the vehicle manufacturer or dealer. The purpose of the TPMS is to warn you of low tire pressure so that you can react in time. Therefore, read the operating instructions for the TPMS beforehand. This will tell you how your vehicle's technology measures tire pressure while driving. After changing wheels or fitting tires, indirectly measuring TPMS must be reinitialized. You can also find out how this works in the operating instructions. With directly measuring TPMS, the sensors are checked and serviced in the workshop when the tires are changed. Due to the additional work involved in initializing and checking the tire pressure control systems, you should leave wheel and tire changes to a professional. Despite the practical TPMS, you should still regularly check the tire pressure yourself.The advantages of an indirectly measuring TPMS: There are no costs for additional sensors, as the indirect system uses the speed sensors that are already there. The disadvantages: The TPMS does not measure precise data. An indirect TPMS cannot tell you which tire is losing air. If the system issues a warning, you must therefore check all tires. The system only reacts to the change in air pressure with a delay. A directly measuring TPMS reports much faster and more precisely. The disadvantages of an indirectly measuring TPMS therefore outweigh the advantages. Most car manufacturers therefore use directly measuring tire pressure control systems. This is what you should bear in mind It is not immediately clear which tire pressure control system has been installed. If your vehicle is equipped with a direct TPMS, the display on the dashboard shows exact values ??for the tire pressure of the individual tires. With an indirect system, a warning light usually only lights up. You can find out which TPMS your vehicle has from the vehicle manufacturer or dealer. The purpose of the TPMS is to warn you of low tire pressure so that you can react in time. Therefore, read the operating instructions for the TPMS beforehand. This will tell you how your vehicle's technology measures tire pressure while driving. After changing wheels or fitting tires, indirectly measuring TPMS must be reinitialized. You can also find out how this works in the operating instructions. With directly measuring TPMS, the sensors are checked and serviced in the workshop when the tires are changed. Due to the additional work involved in initializing and checking the tire pressure control systems, you should leave wheel and tire changes to a professional. Despite the practical TPMS, you should still regularly check the tire pressure yourself.to warn you of low tire pressure so that you can react in time. Therefore, read the operating instructions for the TPMS beforehand. This will tell you how your vehicle's technology measures tire pressure while driving. After changing wheels or fitting tires, indirectly measuring TPMS must be reinitialized. You can also find out how this works in the operating instructions. With directly measuring TPMS, the sensors are checked and serviced in the workshop when the tires are changed. Due to the additional work involved in initializing and checking the tire pressure control systems, you should leave wheel and tire changes to a professional. Despite the practical TPMS, you should still regularly check the tire pressure yourself.to warn you of low tire pressure so that you can react in time. Therefore, read the operating instructions for the TPMS beforehand. This will tell you how your vehicle's technology measures tire pressure while driving. After changing wheels or fitting tires, indirectly measuring TPMS must be reinitialized. You can also find out how this works in the operating instructions. With directly measuring TPMS, the sensors are checked and serviced in the workshop when the tires are changed. Due to the additional work involved in initializing and checking the tire pressure control systems, you should leave wheel and tire changes to a professional. Despite the practical TPMS, you should still regularly check the tire pressure yourself."
Axle suspension	Wheel spacers			"With a so-called wheel spacer, the track width of a car can be increased. This is the distance between the contact points of the two wheels on an axle. It is usually used for optical purposes and to emphasize a sporty vehicle. In combination with a lowered chassis in particular, the wheel spacer supports the powerful appearance of the car. In addition to the external appearance, which is usually crucial for tuning fans, wheel spacers also change the driving behavior. The larger contact area improves driving stability and the lateral inclination when cornering is reduced. As a result, the car can negotiate a bend more quickly. Spacers from H&R Wheel spacers from H&R Wheel spacers using spacers Wheel spacers are usually achieved using spacers or wheel spacers or wheel plates, which have a certain thickness and must be mounted on both sides of an axle. The one-sided use of spacers is not permitted because driving stability would not be guaranteed. The usual hole spacers of course also require the wheel bolts to be changed, because in order to continue to mount the wheels securely, the shaft length of the screw must be increased by the thickness of the spacer. The screws are often included in wheel spacer sets. However, there are also wheel spacers that are mounted on the suspension and have their own threaded holes, so that no longer wheel bolts are necessary. In any case, please note that the wheels must be completely in the wheel housing even after the wheel spacer has been widened in order to meet legal requirements. The wheel spacer must therefore not be too thick, especially when using rims with a negative offset. Wheel spacers only with ABE? The wheel spacers may of course only be installed if they have a general operating permit (ABE) and/or a parts certificate. Since the parts certificate is usually always available, while an ABE is not mandatory, the wheel spacer must be approved by a suitable inspector (e.g. DEKRA or T V). If there are no complaints, the change must then be entered in the registration certificate part I. To do this, the test certificate is presented to the registration office, which makes the entry. It is not enough to just carry the test certificate, the ABE and the parts certificate for the spacers."
Axle suspension	stabilizer			"A stabilizer, also called a stabilizer bar for short, is a spring element that is designed to prevent a car from rocking and rolling. The stabilizer therefore makes an important contribution to driving safety and comfort. This is achieved by a rotational movement around the longitudinal axis of the usually U-shaped component, which is caused by the compression of a wheel. When cornering, for example, the spring of the wheel on the outside of the curve is subjected to greater stress and the stabilizer ensures that the spring of the wheel on the inside of the curve is also loaded. Torsion bars made of tempered steel are usually used for mechanical power transmission, the middle section of which is connected to the body in a rotatable manner. At the bent C-shaped ends of a stabilizer there are levers that are also connected to the wheel suspension in a rotatable manner via rubber elements or ball joints. Stabilizers only work when the wheels on one axle perform different movements. However, if both wheels on one axle are loaded at the same time, as is the case during emergency braking, for example, the stabilizer does not come into action. Stabilizers from Eibach a stabilizer from Meyle for a VW Golf V Special features of stabilizers In addition to the usual U-shaped torsion bars, bending or leaf springs can also take on the function of a stabilizer and then serve as the vehicle suspension at the same time. Active stabilizers are significantly more expensive and therefore often only found in racing and in the luxury class. Their hardness can be adjusted and allow either the steering behavior to be optimized for a certain route or they react automatically to keep the vehicle's roll tendency constant in every situation. In addition, a softer stabilizer is usually desirable on straight stretches so that bumps in the road are not transferred to the other wheel, while a firm stabilizer should produce exactly this effect when cornering. Even with off-road vehicles on difficult terrain, it is usually not an advantage if both wheels on one axle are compressed at the same time. High-quality vehicles therefore offer the option of decoupling the stabilizer at the push of a button so that the two halves of the torsion bar spring move independently of each other."
Axle suspension	Struts/Bars			"Modern cars differ significantly in their axle suspension depending on the manufacturer. Although independent suspension has become the norm for cars, different concepts are being used, particularly on the driven, steerable front axle. For example, double wishbone axles, McPherson axles with spring struts or multi-link axles are common. The corresponding parts of the axle are often connected to one another by rods and struts to ensure stability and achieve the desired driving behavior in all situations. The corresponding rods and struts are usually referred to as control arms. The connection between the stabilizer and the axle suspension is also realized by a rigid connection and is normally called a coupling rod or pendulum support. A Panhard rod, in turn, guides and stabilizes the suspension elements of a rigid axle so that no uncontrolled lateral movements of the axle are possible. a rod for the axle suspension from f.becker_line At kfzteile24 you can also buy rubber-metal bearings for struts. Function of the rods and struts No matter what the axle suspension looks like in detail, the function of the rods and struts used is always the same. The connections should ensure that the wheel geometry behaves during compression and rebound and in all driving situations in such a way that maximum driving safety and comfort is guaranteed. At the same time, it is important to minimize wear on the wheels as much as possible. In order to achieve this objective, struts and rods are made of metal (often steel or aluminum) and equipped with rubber bearings. The rubber bearings achieve a damping effect and increase driving comfort, but are usually the reason why rods and struts have to be replaced. The rubber becomes hard and porous, which is noticeable in noise and leads to spongy driving behavior. Changing struts and bearings Changing struts, rods or bearings requires specialist knowledge and sometimes special tools and should be carried out by an appropriately equipped workshop, with the replacement usually taking place axle by axle, i.e. on both sides of an axle. If you notice that the rubber-metal bearings have become porous, you should have them replaced as soon as possible before water and dirt make the problem worse and compromise driving safety. Broken or bent struts must of course also be replaced immediately, but fortunately they are rare. Avoid potholes and high curbs if possible."
Axle suspension	Tools			
trailer hitch	Individual/attachment parts			
trailer hitch	Electrical kit			"kfzteile24 always has over a million spare parts for cars and practical car accessories in stock. A suitable electrical kit for the trailer hitch, also known as an E-kit, is sure to be there. We offer tailor-made electrical kits for the respective vehicle from brand manufacturers such as Brink and Erich Jaeger, which you can buy easily and conveniently online in the shop. Thanks to fast delivery - usually within 24 hours - car repair shops, breakdown services and petrol stations also rely on our offer in order to be able to react flexibly and in line with requirements. If you have any questions about spare parts in general and electrical kits in particular, you can contact our support team with confidence. The friendly and trained staff will be happy to help you find the right electrical kit for your trailer hitch. How to properly wire a trailer with an electrical kit In most vehicles, there is a small housing on a bracket next to the trailer hitch. In this housing there is a special socket that connects the trailer's electrical system to that of the vehicle via the electrical kit. In particular, the light signals are transmitted to the trailer and the necessary current is passed on. The voltage at the socket is usually 12 volts and a distinction is made between 7-pin and 13-pin systems. 7-pin electrical kit or 13-pin? In the past, a 7-pin connection to the trailer was sufficient to be able to precisely control the light signals of a trailer. There was nothing more than tail lights, brake lights, indicators, license plate lights or rear fog lights. Modern vehicles are more complicated and have technical systems such as an electronic stability program (ESP) or parking aids that use the car's CAN bus to detect when a trailer is attached. Of course, the trailer must also have a 13-pin connection, although adapters are also available. In addition to the larger signal bandwidth, 13-pin electrical kits have the advantage that no water can penetrate due to the necessary rotational movement to secure the connection. Damage to the electrical system and rust on the contacts are avoided in this way. In principle, trailers can be connected using universal electrical kits, although vehicle-specific electrical kits often offer additional functionality."
trailer hitch	Mounting kit			
trailer hitch	Accessories for trailer coupling			"The trailer coupling (Ahk) is not only suitable for towing a trailer, but also provides the attachment point for coupling carriers, which can be used to easily transport bicycles. But the coupling itself is usually not enough, which is why we offer you a wide range of accessories in our shop. At kfzteile24 you will also find electrical kits, sockets and adapters so that trailers or rear carriers can be connected to the vehicle's electrical system. This is the only way to ensure the prescribed lighting. If your trailer coupling is a rigid version that cannot be folded in, a protective cap made of plastic or rubber is also a good choice. Adapter for the electrical kit"
Drive: Axle	drive	axis		"The drive axle is the axle to which the engine power is directed to propel the vehicle. In a car with front-wheel drive, this is the front axle and, analogously, in a rear-wheel drive, the rear axle. In cars with all-wheel drive, a transfer case (also called a central or longitudinal differential) ensures that the engine power can be used for driving on both axles. In colloquial language, the drive shafts or the cardan shaft are often incorrectly referred to as the drive axle, but unlike axles, shafts transmit torque, while axles have a purely load-bearing and bearing function. Part of a cardan shaft from Blue Print kfzteile24 is a multiple award-winning test winner Structure of the drive In order for the wheels of a car to be driven, the torque generated by the engine must first be converted by the change gear before it reaches the drive axle(s) via drive shafts and joints. An axle gear or differential for each drive axle ensures that both wheels have the same torque, even if they rotate at different speeds, for example when cornering. A so-called limited-slip differential can prevent the entire torque from being transferred to the other wheel when the frictional force of one wheel is lost. This would then also cause the other wheel to lose grip and spin. However, wheels without traction to the ground cannot transfer drive, braking or steering forces."
Drive: Axle	differential			"The term differential is generally used to describe the axle gear or axle differential gear between the wheels, which transmits the torque of the engine to the drive shafts. Its job is to ensure the same torque at each drive wheel, even though the wheels rotate at different speeds, for example when cornering. For this reason, the term differential gear is also used. Depending on how the engine is installed in the car and whether it is a front-wheel or rear-wheel drive car, spur gear, bevel gear or hypoid gears are used. Shaft seals protect the inner workings of the differential from dirt. At kfzteile24 you can get many parts for the differential. Lubrication of the gearbox To increase the service life of a differential and prevent noise, the components involved are lubricated by the manufacturer. Shaft seals are used to ensure that the lubricants do not leak out and that no dirt can penetrate the gearbox. They should be checked regularly and replaced if necessary. The seals are usually cheap, but the work steps are complex. It is therefore advisable to replace the shaft seals of the differential if you are working on the drive axle anyway."
Drive: Axle	Haldex coupling			
Drive: Axle	Longitudinal shaft			"A propeller shaft transmits the torque from the engine and converted by the gearbox to the axle differential of the driven axle of a car. Due to its installation direction, the propeller shaft is also called a longitudinal shaft. Another name is cardan shaft, which is derived from the two universal joints if these are attached to both sides. The propeller shaft must enable angular changes, permit axial displacement and at the same time dampen torsional vibrations in order to optimize driving comfort. Hardy discs or fabric disc joints only allow small angles and minimal axial displacement. a centering bush for the longitudinal shaft from febi bilstein Structure of the propeller shaft The propeller shaft always consists of at least one tube and two joints, whereby the type of joints depends on the requirements for the deflection angle and the possible axial displacement. Universal joints are used, among other things, but these are often used as a pair to compensate for the cardan error that occurs at larger deflection angles. A propeller shaft with only one universal joint only transmits the torque evenly if the deflection angle is small. Tripod joints, cup joints or ball joints are much more complex to construct but also allow for larger angles. For particularly small angles and with only small displacements, fabric disc joints (Hardy discs) are a possible alternative. The steel bushings are wrapped in textile cords and embedded in rubber. The rubber enables the joint to have a small amount of play (approx. 5  bending angle and 1.5 mm axial displacement). If the cardan shaft has to transmit the torque over a long distance, it normally consists of two separate parts that are connected by an intermediate bearing. The intermediate bearing serves as a vibration damper and ensures smooth running. Booming noises that would otherwise be expected are reduced."
Drive: Axle	Oils			
Drive: Axle	Switches/Valves			
Drive: Axle	All-wheel drive control unit			
Drive: Axle	Transfer case			"If the torque from the engine is to be distributed to several axles, a transfer case is necessary. For example, four-wheel drive cars have a transfer case, and of course commercial vehicles with even more driven axles do too. It is usually a complex mechanical system consisting of numerous worm gears, gears and spur gears. An integrated differential ensures that the drive force is evenly distributed to the driven axles. Given their complexity, transfer cases are not exactly cheap and should therefore be protected from dirt by suitable shaft seals."
Drive: Wheel	drive	wheel		"Buy parts for the wheel drive In order for a car to move, the power of the engine must be transferred to the wheels. The components involved are collectively referred to as the drive train. This includes the clutch, the gearbox, depending on the type of drive also a cardan shaft, as well as the axle drive, often called an axle differential, and of course the drive shafts and wheels. Drive shaft from f.becker line The different drive concepts Front-wheel drive Front-wheel drive is used in the majority of current cars and, in contrast to rear-wheel drive, is almost exclusively combined with front engines. The gearbox also functions as an axle drive and the front wheels are driven via two drive shafts. A cardan shaft is not necessary. Due to the high load on the front axle, vehicles with front-wheel drive exhibit slight understeer in curves. The cornering force of the rear axle is therefore very important to prevent uncontrolled skidding. Rear-wheel drive If the rear axle is used to drive the vehicle, it is referred to as rear-wheel drive. They can be combined with both rear and front engines. If the engine is in the front part of the vehicle, the torque must be transmitted to the rear axle transmission via a cardan shaft. From there, drive shafts lead to the wheels. Rear-wheel drives tend to oversteer, but a favorable weight distribution between the axles can be achieved, especially with front-wheel engines. All-wheel drive With all-wheel drives, all four wheels transmit the engine power and thus provide propulsion. An additional center differential compensates for the different speeds on the drive axles. The advantage of the complex system is greater traction, which is particularly in demand in off-road vehicles and sports cars, and correspondingly high stability when cornering. The higher weight and greater friction losses, however, come at the expense of fuel consumption. Some vehicles are also offered in which the all-wheel drive can be switched on. Drive shafts and joint sets Whatever the drive of your car may look like, you cannot do without drive shafts and suitable joints. The shafts transfer the torque to the wheel hub and the joints ensure that the axle remains movable. This means that power can be transmitted even on uneven roads and the drive shafts can compensate for the angles that result from the steering angle on a steering axle. The joints are protected from dirt and moisture by appropriate axle boots or bellows. It is made of rubber or plastic and should be replaced as soon as it shows any cracks."
Drive: Wheel	drive shaft			"At least two drive shafts are required so that the torque of the engine can be used to propel a vehicle. Cars with four-wheel drive even have four drive shafts. They represent the connection between the axle gear and the wheels. The drive shafts are usually connected by two joints, which compensate for the movement of the wheels, as the ground is not always level. The wheels are also driven when the steering is turned thanks to a corresponding joint set. Drive shaft for a VW Golf III kfzteile24 is a multiple award-winning test winner Changing the drive shafts If a drive shaft is bent or even broken, the defective component can only be replaced, but fortunately such damage is very rare. The axle boots or bellows break more frequently, which can damage the flanged joints. However, if the drive shaft needs to be replaced, a specialist workshop must be visited. In most cases, such a defect is announced by previous noises. Loud clicking and rattling, especially when cornering, are a corresponding indication. Of course, the drive shafts also need to be replaced if they have become distorted due to mechanical stress, such as in an accident."
Drive: Wheel	Fasteners/accessories			"If the drive shaft or the drive shaft joints need to be replaced, you should check when purchasing spare parts whether suitable axle nuts and axle screws are included in the scope of delivery. The screws and nuts are required to attach the axle joints and the drive shaft. If you have opted for a package without the corresponding fastening material, you can find the appropriate material under fastening and accessories. Simply select your vehicle and the appropriate screws and nuts will be displayed. Axle screw for the drive shaft Screws and nuts for the axle The necessary fastening screws and nuts are often included when you buy a joint set or drive shaft, and workshops usually have them as spare parts. However, if you are replacing an axle joint or drive shaft yourself, it is advisable to order screws and nuts at the same time. The old fastening parts are usually heavily corroded and should not be used for new assembly for safety reasons."
Drive: Wheel	Bellows			"The bellows, also known as the axle boot, must be replaced relatively frequently because they are usually made of plastic or rubber and tend to tear over time. They should then be replaced promptly to avoid damaging the axle joints. In addition, the lubricating grease in the axle boot can be thrown out and, in the worst case, land on the brake disc. The braking effect is reduced by the grease and precise deceleration of the car is no longer possible. Bellows with fastening clamps and lubricating grease Changing the axle boot The axle boot or bellows must always be replaced if the old ones have been torn or perhaps damaged by animal bites. Depending on the vehicle type, the entire suspension may have to be dismantled, while in other cars it is sufficient to loosen the drive shaft support joint. The replacement should therefore be carried out in a specialist workshop, where the work costs around 150 euros depending on the hourly rate. Incidentally, replacement is often easier in rear-wheel drive vehicles than in front-wheel drive vehicles."
Drive: Wheel	Joint set			"The drive shafts are connected to the wheel hub and the differential or gearbox by means of joints. These joint sets are necessary to ensure that the power is transmitted to the wheels even when steering and driving over bumps. The joints allow the vehicle to be compressed, whereby the wheel-side joint is usually subject to greater loads and therefore usually wears out sooner. The scope of delivery of a joint set can vary considerably. In addition to the actual joint and suitable fastening screws, bellows with suitable clamps are often included. Grease can also be included in the package, but does not have to be. Wheel-side joint set for a VW GOLF 3 What should you consider when buying a joint set? If you have already selected the right vehicle, you will usually find a whole range of joint sets at kfzteile24. Pay attention to the installation side, i.e. whether it is a wheel-side or gearbox-side joint, whether the engine code matches your vehicle and whether the gearbox type matches your car. You can find out whether the desired joint kit really fits your car either by using the original spare part number or by looking at the vehicle types for which the joint is approved. Of course, our friendly and competent support team will also be happy to help you with your selection."
Drive: Wheel	Tripod star			
Batteries	Batteries | Chargers | Converters			"Problems with the starter battery can arise, especially in winter, if it cannot generate enough energy to start the combustion process. The reason for this is the increased friction and compression resistance as well as the necessary charging voltage, which increases in cold weather. However, since many cars do not have temperature-dependent voltage regulation, the charging voltage must be such that it does not overcharge in summer. As a result, the starter battery is not fully charged in winter and less energy is stored. An appropriate charger can help and also ensures that sulfation is avoided in lead batteries. Starter battery for a car Starter battery from f.becker_line Finding the right starter battery If you need a new starter battery for your car, you can simply enter your vehicle data in our shop and select suitable starter batteries based on the vehicle type. Or you can buy the battery based on the technical data. Not only voltage and capacity are relevant, but also the dimensions of the battery and the arrangement of the poles. After all, the individual battery cells can be arranged differently. Avoid shocks during installation and always transport batteries upright."
Batteries	Battery (selection via vehicle type)			"Table of Contents Function of the battery Structure of a typical car battery How a lead-acid battery works Wet batteries Gel and AGM batteries Correct storage Charging to prevent sulfation What should you bear in mind when buying? Changing a battery The advantages of kfzteile24 Function of the battery Electrical energy is also playing an increasingly important role in cars. In addition to obvious consumers such as lamps for headlights or indicators, it is additional safety and comfort systems in particular that increase the amount of electricity required. For example, auxiliary, seat, window and mirror heaters, the air conditioning fan, ABS and ESP as well as electronic injection and ignition systems all require energy to work. The voltage is supplied by the generator, which is usually driven by the combustion engine by means of a V-ribbed belt and covers a power requirement of around 2000 watts. To be able to deliver this power for one hour, the generator consumes around 1 liter of fuel. However, in order for the radio or navigation system to work when idling or when the engine is switched off, the car needs a battery. It serves as a buffer to absorb electrical energy generated by the alternator and release it when required. Its primary task, however, is to supply the starter motor with energy so that it can initially start the combustion process. The car battery is therefore often referred to as a starter battery. Since it is rechargeable, it is an accumulator. Structure of a typical car battery The lead-acid accumulator based on electrode plates made of lead dioxide (positive plate) and lead (negative plate) consists of several cells. In a cell, the plates are stored as close together as possible, but separated by a separator (usually PVC) to prevent short circuits. Such a cell made of lead plates delivers a voltage of 2 volts. By connecting 6 cells in series, the 12 volts required for the car are achieved. The plates and separators are flooded with an electrolyte solution (diluted sulfuric acid with a concentration of 37%). Above the plates is the electrolyte storage space and below the plates a sludge space absorbs dissolved lead. The entire construction is enclosed in a block box that allows it to be attached to the vehicle. Lead-acid batteries can leak and should therefore always be transported upright and stored on a level surface. Calcium-calcium batteries are maintenance-free. They are replaced at the end of their service life. How a lead-acid battery works When charged, the positive plates of the battery consist of lead dioxide (PbO2) and the negative plates of lead (Pb). When discharging, a chemical reaction takes place in which both plates are converted to lead sulfate (PbSO4). One product of this process is water (H2O).which causes the acid concentration to drop. The acid concentration is therefore an indicator of the battery's charge level. If it drops to 17%, the battery is completely discharged. When charging, the process is reversed, so that lead, lead dioxide and sulphuric acid are formed from lead sulphate and water. The overall reaction is as follows: The discharge with the release of electrical energy takes place to the right. The charging by means of energy supply takes place to the left. Pb + PbO2 + 2H2SO4 <-> 2PbSO4 + 2H2O Lead + lead dioxide + sulphuric acid <-> lead sulphate + water Wet battery The wet battery is the most common type of battery in the passenger car sector, although the lead accumulators, which are still widely used in the majority of new cars, have been replaced by calcium batteries. Compared to conventional lead-lead dioxide batteries, these accumulators are maintenance-free and have only a low level of self-discharge, but they do not have the option of refilling with distilled water. Loss of fluid, which also occurs over the life of the battery, cannot therefore be compensated. Instead, the battery is replaced in its entirety. A special form of wet battery is the EFB battery (enhanced flooded battery), which promises greater cycle density and a longer service life by adding carbon additives when producing the electrode plates. They can be charged and discharged quickly and are therefore suitable for engines with automatic start-stop systems, unlike other starter batteries. Gel and AGM batteries In batteries of this type, the electrolyte is no longer liquid and is either bound as a gel by adding silica (silicon gel batteries) or within a microfiber fleece (AGM batteries - absorbing glass mat). This special feature makes it possible to pack the positive and negative plates particularly closely within the battery and reduce the internal resistance. Due to the closed design, any gases that are produced are converted back into water in an oxygen recombination process, so that these accumulators have a long service life and only have a low self-discharge. They are leak-proof and generally more shock-resistant than wet batteries. Another advantage is that they are easier to transport and can be installed more flexibly. Due to their high cycle density, AGM batteries are particularly suitable for automatic start-stop systems. AGM batteries can even be easily charged by short-term energy supply, such as when braking. However, they are correspondingly expensive. At kfzteile24 you will find car batteries for every budget. You can also find batteries from the brand manufacturer Varta at kfzteile24. When buying batteries, pay attention to the dimensions and the specified performance data. Correct storage of a car battery The starter battery should generally only be removed from the vehicle if it is not in use.if a longer period of downtime is imminent and there is a risk of deep discharge (80% of the nominal capacity) due to self-discharge. Depending on the design, self-discharge can be up to 1% of the nominal capacity per day and depends on the acid concentration, the acid level and the temperature. The battery should be stored in a cool (approx. 10  Celsius) and dry place, on a level surface and in an upright position. Regular ventilation prevents the accumulation of toxic gases. The charge and acid level are also checked regularly (more frequently in winter than in summer, i.e. every 1-2 months). If necessary, charge the battery using a charger with electronic charge control and top up the acid level. This must only be done with distilled water, because filling the battery with sulphuric acid reduces the conductivity of the accumulator. In addition, large sulphate crystals form, which lead to sulphation and reduce the battery capacity to such an extent that it becomes unusable. Charging to prevent sulfation Sulfate formation in lead accumulators is a completely normal process, as can be seen from the way it works. However, if large sulfate crystals form, they can no longer be converted back and the battery capacity decreases. The only way to prevent this is to avoid the formation of large crystals. Like all crystals, they only grow over time when there is enough material, and converting the sulfate into lead and lead dioxide by charging prevents this. If you do not remove the battery and drive the car regularly, you should have few problems with the battery if the voltage generation and voltage regulation in the car are working properly. BUT: The charging voltage required to fully charge the battery depends on the temperature and is higher in cold weather than in warm weather. However, since most cars do not use a temperature-dependent charging voltage and the aim is to prevent overcharging in summer, the charging voltage in winter is usually too low for all of the lead sulfate to be fully converted. If you want to prevent this, you must connect a charger with temperature-dependent voltage regulation to the battery approximately every 1-2 weeks in order to achieve a full charge. What should you consider when buying? Depending on the technology, conditions of use and care, an average battery has a lifespan of around 6 years. However, cheap products from the hardware store can lose so much capacity after just 2-3 years that they can no longer perform their function. When buying a new battery, you should therefore opt for high-quality branded products in order to save effort and costs and, last but not least, to protect the environment. The battery can usually be replaced by a layperson, but it is recommended that both the generator and the voltage regulator be checked if the battery is defective.to rule out a fault in the power supply. When buying the battery, you should pay attention to the characteristics of your current accumulator (nominal voltage, capacity and cold test current) and choose the new battery accordingly. The installation size, mounting rails and pole position must also be correct in order to be able to attach the starter battery securely. Changing the battery Changing a battery in the workshop costs between 150 and 600 euros depending on the vehicle, although the battery itself and of course the labor costs can vary greatly. However, with a little skill, it can usually be replaced by yourself. First check that the power supply is OK, i.e. that the generator delivers around 14 volts when the engine is running. The voltage is checked using a multimeter that is connected to the positive and negative poles of the battery. Then remove the multimeter to connect a charger with voltage maintenance. This prevents settings in the control unit, clock or radio from being lost when the battery is changed. Pay attention to the polarity of the connections. If the battery has a positive distributor, the charger is connected to it, because the positive distributor is removed first. However, switch off all electrical consumers and of course the engine before changing. Disconnecting the battery The car battery is usually located in the engine compartment, but depending on the vehicle it can also be located in the rear. This does not change the procedure for disconnecting. First, the cable of the negative terminal is removed. In contrast to the red positive cable, it is usually black. Only after the negative cable has been removed can the positive cable be disconnected from the battery. Inserting the new battery Before installation, the batteries should be checked again to ensure they are identical. The size, pole position and of course the capacity should be identical. Any additional bars for fastening can be removed. They are sometimes present so that one type of battery can be used in different car models. Now put the battery back in the right place in the designated place and clean the cable contacts. Connecting the car battery When connecting, first attach the red positive cable to the positive terminal. A little terminal grease prevents premature corrosion. The negative cable can then be attached to the negative terminal. If the car has a positive distributor, this is also screwed back on. The charger with voltage maintenance can then be removed. Finally, the battery is reattached using the holders provided and any pole caps are put on.to be able to attach the starter battery securely. Changing the battery Changing a battery in a workshop costs between 150 and 600 euros, depending on the vehicle, although the battery itself and of course the labor costs can vary greatly. However, with a little skill, you can usually replace it yourself. First check that the power supply is OK, i.e. that the generator delivers around 14 volts when the engine is running. The voltage is checked using a multimeter that is connected to the positive and negative poles of the battery. Then remove the multimeter in order to connect a charger with voltage maintenance. This prevents settings in the control unit, clock or radio from being lost when the battery is changed. Pay attention to the polarity of the connections. If the battery has a positive distributor, the charger is connected to this, because the positive distributor is removed first. Nevertheless, switch off all electrical consumers and of course the engine before changing. Disconnecting the battery The car battery is usually located in the engine compartment, but depending on the vehicle it can also be located in the rear. This does not change the procedure for disconnecting. First, the negative terminal cable is removed. In contrast to the red positive cable, it is usually black. Only after the negative cable has been removed can the positive cable be disconnected from the battery. Inserting the new battery Before installation, the batteries should be checked again to ensure they are identical in design. The size, pole position and of course the capacity should be identical. Any additional fastening bars can be removed. They are sometimes present so that one type of battery can be used in different car models. Now put the battery back in the right place and clean the cable contacts. Connecting the car battery When connecting, first attach the red positive cable to the positive terminal. A little terminal grease prevents premature corrosion. The negative cable can then be attached to the negative terminal. If the car has a positive distributor, this is also screwed back on. The charger with voltage maintenance can then be removed. Finally, the battery is reattached to the holders provided and any pole caps are put on.to be able to attach the starter battery securely. Changing the battery Changing a battery in a workshop costs between 150 and 600 euros, depending on the vehicle, although the battery itself and of course the labor costs can vary greatly. However, with a little skill, you can usually replace it yourself. First check that the power supply is OK, i.e. that the generator delivers around 14 volts when the engine is running. The voltage is checked using a multimeter that is connected to the positive and negative poles of the battery. Then remove the multimeter in order to connect a charger with voltage maintenance. This prevents settings in the control unit, clock or radio from being lost when the battery is changed. Pay attention to the polarity of the connections. If the battery has a positive distributor, the charger is connected to this, because the positive distributor is removed first. Nevertheless, switch off all electrical consumers and of course the engine before changing. Disconnecting the battery The car battery is usually located in the engine compartment, but depending on the vehicle it can also be located in the rear. This does not change the procedure for disconnecting. First, the negative terminal cable is removed. In contrast to the red positive cable, it is usually black. Only after the negative cable has been removed can the positive cable be disconnected from the battery. Inserting the new battery Before installation, the batteries should be checked again to ensure they are identical in design. The size, pole position and of course the capacity should be identical. Any additional fastening bars can be removed. They are sometimes present so that one type of battery can be used in different car models. Now put the battery back in the right place and clean the cable contacts. Connecting the car battery When connecting, first attach the red positive cable to the positive terminal. A little terminal grease prevents premature corrosion. The negative cable can then be attached to the negative terminal. If the car has a positive distributor, this is also screwed back on. The charger with voltage maintenance can then be removed. Finally, the battery is reattached to the holders provided and any pole caps are put on.Then remove the multimeter to connect a charger with voltage maintenance. This prevents settings in the control unit, clock or radio from being lost when the battery is changed. Pay attention to the polarity of the connections. If the battery has a positive distributor, the charger is connected to this, because the positive distributor is removed first. However, switch off all electrical consumers and of course the engine before changing. Disconnecting the battery The car battery is usually located in the engine compartment, but depending on the vehicle it can also be located in the rear. This does not change the procedure for disconnecting. First, the cable of the negative pole is removed. In contrast to the red positive cable, it is usually black. Only after the negative cable has been removed can the positive cable be disconnected from the battery. Inserting the new battery Before installation, the batteries should be checked again to ensure they are identical. Size, pole position and of course the capacity should be identical. Any additional bars for fastening can be removed. They are sometimes there so that one type of battery can be used in different car models. Now put the battery back in the correct position and clean the cable contacts. Connecting the car battery When connecting, first attach the red positive cable to the positive pole. A little terminal grease prevents premature corrosion. Then the negative cable can be attached to the negative pole. If the car has a positive distributor, this is also screwed back on. The charger with voltage maintenance can then be removed. Finally, the battery is attached again using the holders provided and any pole caps are put on.Then remove the multimeter to connect a charger with voltage maintenance. This prevents settings in the control unit, clock or radio from being lost when the battery is changed. Pay attention to the polarity of the connections. If the battery has a positive distributor, the charger is connected to this, because the positive distributor is removed first. However, switch off all electrical consumers and of course the engine before changing. Disconnecting the battery The car battery is usually located in the engine compartment, but depending on the vehicle it can also be located in the rear. This does not change the procedure for disconnecting. First, the cable of the negative pole is removed. In contrast to the red positive cable, it is usually black. Only after the negative cable has been removed can the positive cable be disconnected from the battery. Inserting the new battery Before installation, the batteries should be checked again to ensure they are identical. Size, pole position and of course the capacity should be identical. Any additional bars for fastening can be removed. They are sometimes there so that one type of battery can be used in different car models. Now put the battery back in the correct position and clean the cable contacts. Connecting the car battery When connecting, first attach the red positive cable to the positive pole. A little terminal grease prevents premature corrosion. Then the negative cable can be attached to the negative pole. If the car has a positive distributor, this is also screwed back on. The charger with voltage maintenance can then be removed. Finally, the battery is attached again using the holders provided and any pole caps are put on.Now put the battery back in the correct position and clean the cable contacts. Connecting the car battery When connecting, first attach the red positive cable to the positive pole. A little terminal grease prevents premature corrosion. Then the negative cable can be attached to the negative pole. If the car has a positive distributor, this is also screwed back on. The charger with voltage maintenance can then be removed. Finally, the battery is attached again using the holders provided and any pole caps are put on.Now put the battery back in the correct position and clean the cable contacts. Connecting the car battery When connecting, first attach the red positive cable to the positive pole. A little terminal grease prevents premature corrosion. Then the negative cable can be attached to the negative pole. If the car has a positive distributor, this is also screwed back on. The charger with voltage maintenance can then be removed. Finally, the battery is attached again using the holders provided and any pole caps are put on."
Batteries	Battery (selection via Ah)			
Batteries	Motorcycle batteries (selection via Ah)			"All combustion engines require initial energy to overcome the resistance that occurs when starting. Motorcycles are of course no exception and for this reason they also have a starter battery. To make it easier to distinguish, this battery is usually called a motorcycle battery. Similar to a car, the motorcycle battery ensures that the engine's starter can perform its function. When the starter, also known as the starter motor, is engaged, its electric motor overcomes the inertia and any friction and compression resistance that occurs. The fuel-air mixture is compressed and is ready for ignition. As soon as the combustion engine is running, the generator normally takes over the energy supply. Motorcycle battery from Bosch Choosing the right motorcycle battery Modern motorcycle batteries have a voltage of 12 volts, while the electrics of smaller and older mopeds often run at a voltage of 6 volts. For this reason, choosing the right motorcycle battery is generally a little more complex than for a car. In addition to the voltage, the capacity plays an important role, as do the dimensions. Take a close look at your motorcycle's current battery and use the dimensions when selecting a new battery. The pole size and position are also important, as they can vary considerably depending on the circuit inside the battery. Usually, 6 cells with 2 volts are connected in series. Compared to normal wet batteries, AGM batteries (absorbing glass mat) have the advantage that the electrolyte is bound in a fleece. These batteries are characterized by a high cycle density and have a particularly long service life."
Batteries	Consumer/backup & buffer batteries			"Consumer batteries for top performance According to statistics, the number of battery failures in vehicles has increased steadily in recent years. No wonder when you consider how much a car battery has to do today. In addition to the primary systems, a large number of additional systems must also be supplied in modern motor vehicles, and this without increasing the performance of the car battery. The regular on-board battery usually ensures the energy supply to all primary systems. However, if there are unexpected downtimes or power peaks, the battery can fail. kfzteile24 has numerous solutions to this problem in its range of more than 1 million items. Whether consumer or backup and buffer batteries: With the high-quality battery blocks from well-known manufacturers, the vehicle runs smoothly. From zero to maximum performance in a matter of seconds Consumer and buffer batteries are designed for long-term use. They function as starter batteries and can therefore release large amounts of energy in the short term. They are ideal for vehicles whose integrated batteries have discharged after long periods of downtime. Boat engines can also be made to run again in this way. Such a battery as an emergency reserve in a vehicle or warehouse is always recommended for owners of agricultural machinery and watercraft. High-quality consumer batteries can be stored for long periods of time without discharging or the risk of leakage. Their cold start capability is the most important criterion. Particularly sluggish engines often require multiple starts. High-quality consumer batteries deliver top performance even in very short successive intervals. Data backup and operational loads The buffer battery ensures that important electronic devices are supplied with power even when the engine is switched off. This not only includes secondary systems such as digital clocks, but also computer-based systems such as those frequently used in agricultural machinery, for example driving routes and details on economical and ecological sowing. Such data must also be retained during work interruptions and stored in the on-board computer. The high reliability of the consumer batteries is assumed. When the vehicle is moved, particularly high forces act on the batteries. Vibrations, shocks and G-forces subject the accumulator to great stress. These micro-vibrations must not damage the battery, even when used continuously. If the primary battery fails completely, backup batteries can act as an emergency generator. They guarantee uninterrupted power. Such supplementary batteries often work even more reliably than the integrated vehicle battery."
Batteries	Chargers & maintenance devices			"Powerful chargers from specialist retailers Fast, customer-friendly processing of orders can only be guaranteed if the car parts and car spare parts are in stock in a timely manner, especially in the event of an emergency. kfzteile24 offers over 1 million such products for all common car brands and is able to provide over 90 percent of car parts within 24 hours. This fact also applies to innovative chargers for all types of motor vehicles. When selecting chargers, great importance is attached to brands that have been assessed for their quality by G T testers. Various factors were taken into account. These include the packaging and the protection class as well as the operation and range of functions. Various electrical tests were also included in the assessment. The majority of products achieved the best values ??when comparing price and performance. The point of the implemented charge maintenance and charging processes is important here. In addition, tests in a cold chamber at minus 20 degrees Celsius gave good to very good ratings for all branded products when it comes to solid and robust workmanship. The modern chargers from kfzteile24 allow you to conveniently charge your vehicle batteries to at least 13.8 volts. Tasks and advantages of maintenance devices kfzteile24 offers the largest range of high-quality spare parts for German car brands. The renowned dealer always has 1 million parts in stock. Within this range, professionals in petrol stations, workshops, towing services and original equipment manufacturers in the automotive industry can find various vehicle maintenance devices. The battery discharge devices, like the car chargers, are indispensable to ensure that the batteries always have a sufficient amount of energy. Vehicles are not always on the road, so the batteries can discharge, especially during longer periods of downtime. This is not the case with a maintenance device. These additional features help to ensure that the operating voltage cannot drop. And this even happens when it is cold outside. The vehicle battery does not have to be removed for this. Battery maintenance devices are a practical solution. In order for a starter to work, a current of 100 to 1,000 amps must be present to start the engine. At temperatures as low as minus 18 degrees Celsius, the performance of car batteries drops to half their original level, making starting impossible. This problem is solved with so-called battery trainers. This also eliminates the annoying task of checking the energy storage and regularly recharging it in winter. Trickle charging at a cell voltage limit of between 2.17 and 2.30 volts prevents sulfation in lead batteries. This primarily occurs when the battery charge decreases.For modern AGM lead batteries, less than 5 milliamperes per 100 ampere hours of nominal capacity are sufficient as a maintenance charge current."
Batteries	Voltage converter			"Voltage converters in motor vehicles A voltage converter is an additional device for use in trucks or other vehicles with an on-board voltage that differs from that of the device to be operated. It is used to supply external consumers and has the task of converting the on-board voltage of the vehicle, which is usually 12 or 24 volts. The required output voltage depends on the necessary supply voltage for the consumer. This is usually 12 volts. The converters can often be connected to the on-board network via the cigarette lighter socket. However, there are also voltage converters that can be integrated directly into the on-board network via cable connections. These are suitable if a device is to be permanently installed in the vehicle, which avoids exposed cables and the voltage can also be distributed to several consumers. Areas of use Such converters are often used in the truck sector by long-distance drivers, as they can operate devices such as cool boxes or cell phone and laptop chargers that are designed for 12 volt on-board voltage for the car sector. For the operation of everyday devices, there are also converters which have a 230 volt standard mains plug with alternating current as an output and can provide a sufficiently high output. This is why they are often used in mobile homes or on pleasure boats so that common household appliances can be used when traveling without a connection to a fixed power grid. Types and function Voltage converters can either convert direct current into direct current, whereby only the voltage is changed (DC-DC converter) or they convert the direct voltage into an alternating voltage (DC-AC converter). In DC-DC converters, an electronically controlled switch (e.g. MOSFET) is opened and closed so often that the desired voltage is created on average. A coil or capacitor in the circuit serves as a buffer which compensates for the voltage fluctuations caused by the switching processes, so that an almost constant output voltage is generated. DC-AC converters, on the other hand, work with an inverter. Four switchable diodes are controlled so that the current direction changes permanently. The control is carried out in such a way that on average a voltage curve is created that is close to the alternating voltage. However, modern devices require a precise alternating voltage curve, which is why an inverter with sine wave smoothing is necessary for their use."
Batteries	Battery accessories			"Battery accessories for more power According to their statistics, when the ADAC breakdown service is called out, it is mainly for the following reason: the battery is defective. Even if the vehicle does not start in winter, it is usually due to the accumulator. There are simple and inexpensive solutions to prevent this. Professional battery accessories not only increase the lifespan of the battery, but also its performance - and not just in winter. kfzteile24 offers a variety of useful helpers from well-known manufacturers and for all vehicles. The company's own support center also answers all questions about vehicles so that customers can get off to a flying start. Space-saving and useful: battery accessories for every vehicle A simple and effective way to ensure that the battery works even at temperatures well below freezing is a thermal protection cover. It can be trimmed to any size without tools using Velcro straps and, since it does not need to be cut, can be reused at any time. Once attached, it keeps the battery block air-conditioned all year round and prevents complex measures to maintain battery performance. A terminal cover cap provides additional protection. Distilled water is indispensable when using electronic components. If you don't want to carry a canister in your vehicle, you can use a space-saving bottle. It can be easily stored in a side compartment and is quickly to hand in an emergency. Terminal grease is also a performance optimizer. It not only prevents corrosion, but also improves conductivity, which ensures brighter lighting and safer starting. A ground block creates connection options for car hi-fi and other technical equipment. This increases the resale value of vehicles. But the additional interfaces can also be necessary for commercial vehicles. They offer space for work lights, heaters and many other utensils. As a preventative measure, the battery's acid level should be checked before the onset of winter. An inexpensive but effective acid tester will tell you whether the values ??are within the norm. A balanced acid content increases the life of the battery and its readiness for use even in winter. High-quality battery terminals ensure secure contacts and are available universally or for specific vehicles. Most battery accessories are so compact that they can be carried in the vehicle at all times. With this equipment, many breakdowns can be prevented or quickly repaired."
Braking system	Braking system			"Reliable brand brakes from quality manufacturers at kfzteile24 Brakes are among the most sought-after spare parts in our online shop, because in addition to attractive prices, we offer you reliable brand quality from specialists such as ATE, Brembo or Bosch. The brake discs, brake pads, brake drums and brake shoes correspond to the OE parts that are also installed by the vehicle manufacturers themselves and are of course tested and approved. In addition to the friction components, you can also buy other components and brake accessories from us at low prices. The braking system is ultimately a complex system, although the basic structure differs only slightly. Structure of a braking system A braking system always consists of a form of energy supply that starts the braking process. In cars, this function is performed by the driver, who presses the brake pedal. In cars, the force is then usually transmitted hydraulically through a master brake cylinder and brake hoses to the brake piston in the brake calliper or the wheel cylinder of the drum brake. An exception are parking brakes, which are often operated by cables or electronically. Brake boosters increase the force and brake force control systems such as ABS regulate the brake pressure to prevent the wheels from locking. Disc brakes have largely become the standard wheel brakes on the front and/or rear axle, but drum brakes are also still used, particularly in small cars and off-road vehicles. Master brake cylinder of a brake system The pressure for actuating the service brake is generated in the master brake cylinder. Costs for changing brake discs and brake pads The costs for changing all four brake discs including the brake pads for a Golf class car range between 650 and 1200 euros as a workshop quote. If you only have the brake pads changed, you will have to pay between 300 and around 450 euros. This can be done if the brake discs do not have any grooves or other signs of wear and there is enough material left up to the wear limit of the brake discs that the new set of brake pads wears out first. On average, a brake disc lasts for two brake pads, but this must be checked on a case-by-case basis. In any case, brakes are always changed on an axle-by-axle basis to ensure even wear and directional stability when braking. Solid discs from BremboBrake hose of the brake systemBrake drums from Brembo The costs usually increase with the size of the car: For example, a complete change of brake discs and pads in a Mercedes E-Class costs around 800 to 1200 euros; replacing just the brake pads costs 300 to 500 euros. In a BMW X5, it is 1500-2500 euros for a complete change - or 500 to 700 euros for new pads. Since many small cars have drum brakes at the rear,brake discs and pads only need to be changed at the front. This costs between 300 and 450 euros. The drum brakes last a long time, but are a bit more complex to replace. Save in the right place The prices mentioned are typical workshop offers and vary according to the car, location and respective labor costs. You often have the choice between original parts and cheaper models from the aftermarket. If you want to save money when changing the brakes, you can either install the brakes yourself or buy inexpensive replacements. However, since you should always leave the installation to an expert so as not to endanger yourself or others, it is a good idea to compare the parts carefully. In contrast to the workshop offer, you can be sure at kfzteile24 and choose the brake brand of your choice. Simply enter your vehicle details and select the appropriate brake parts from the pre-selection. Four brake discs for a VW Golf 4 are available from just 100 euros, depending on the year of manufacture and PR number. Now all you have to do is order the right brake pads and then ask the workshop to install them. This way you can drive cheaply and safely. Brembo brake pads - longer service life After changing the brakes, you want to brake immediately to see how effective they are, but unnecessary emergency braking is counterproductive in the first 300-500 kilometers. The brake pads and the brake discs need some time to adjust to each other, i.e. any unevenness in the pad is slowly rubbed off without thermal overload and the resulting groove formation. If the braking phase is ignored, the contact pattern of the brake disc deteriorates and the brakes start to judder. In the worst case, cracks can form in grooves or slots. If in doubt, the new brake disc must be replaced immediately. Since the brakes are always changed axle by axle, this quickly becomes expensive. Emergency braking due to traffic conditions must of course always be carried out with full braking force. Buying the right brake Brake discs differ in many ways. Their diameter varies. They are available as solid discs or with internal ventilation. With grooves or slots for water drainage and also different holes for the wheel bolts, to name just a few criteria. Different brakes are often used on the front axle and the rear axle. To find the right brake, you should therefore measure the parts currently installed and compare them carefully with our offers. This is especially true for cars whose braking system has already been converted. After all, the brake must fit the rim, the wheel hub and the brake caliper. If you do buy the wrong brake, you can use our 365-day return policy.We will exchange the goods on request or you will get your money back. Of course, this does not only apply to brake discs but also to all other parts of the braking system."
Braking system	ABS / vehicle dynamics control			"As a specialist in the trade of spare parts and car accessories, kfzteile24 naturally also offers numerous components for modern control systems such as the anti-lock braking system (ABS). The task of the system, referred to in the StVZO as the automatic anti-lock system (ABV), is to monitor the wheels and control the brake pressure. In the kfzteile24 online shop you will find the necessary components such as wheel speed sensors, sensor rings or brake pressure regulators. The parts come from well-known brand manufacturers such as febi bilstein, Becker, ATE or Blue Print and we also regularly check the particularly inexpensive variants in the bargain category. Thanks to outstanding quality combined with fast delivery, kfzteile24 is also a reliable partner for car workshops and breakdown services. Parts purchased from us are usually dispatched within 24 hours of purchase. We also offer our customers a 365-day right of return. This means you can buy from the comfort of your own home without any risk. Try us out! Structure and function of the anti-lock braking system (ABS) ABS is used in both hydraulic and pneumatic braking systems, although systems that use brake fluid are relevant for cars. The anti-lock braking system ensures that the wheels always roll during braking and that the vehicle remains steerable. The braking distance is also reduced because the maximum braking deceleration is achieved when the wheels slip by around 8-25%. If the slip value increases, the braking force decreases until, when the wheels lock (100% brake slip), only the sliding friction decelerates the car. The localized abrasion then leads to brake flats, so that a functioning ABS also minimizes tire wear. A typical 4-channel ABS consists of wheel sensors with pulse generators, an electronic control unit and solenoid valves. Wheel sensors with pulse rings The speed of each wheel is recorded via fixed induction or Hall sensors and perforated or toothed disks that rotate with the wheel. If the speed of one wheel drops significantly in comparison to the others when braking, the ABS kicks in and reduces the brake pressure until the actual slip value matches the target value. Electronic control unit The signals from the wheel sensors are transmitted to the ABS control unit and evaluated there. If the control unit detects too much slip on a wheel, the brake pressure is reduced via two solenoid valves in the hydraulic line. In 4-channel systems, control is carried out separately for each wheel. In older 3-channel systems, only the front wheels are controlled individually and the rear wheels are regulated together. Solenoid valves The solenoid valves are used by the control unit to regulate the brake pressure. Two valves are usually used per wheel. If the control unit detects too much slip, the first valve is closed and the connection to the master brake cylinder is severed.The pressure at the wheel cylinder remains constant. If the wheel slip increases further, the second valve is opened and brake fluid is pumped out. The pressure drops, and so does the slip. The ABS control cycle of pressure build-up (valve 1: open, valve 2: closed), pressure maintenance (valve 1: closed, valve 2: closed) and pressure reduction (valve 1: closed, valve 2: open) repeats itself up to ten times per second when braking. The brake fluid released during pressure reduction is absorbed by a pressure accumulator and returned to the master cylinder brake circuit by a return pump. The pressure increases there before the first valve is opened again. The driver perceives the rapid changes in the ABS control cycle as vibrations in the brake pedal. Wheel speed sensor from Becker What happens if the ABS fails? Fortunately, most braking processes only take place when there is little slip and the ABS does not have to intervene. In these cases, the braking system works like a normal dual-circuit system, with the brake pressure from the master cylinder acting on the wheel cylinders without reduction. If the ABS fails, the valves are pressed into their original positions by springs (valve 1: open, valve 2: closed), so that unassisted braking is still possible. When driving at walking pace, the ABS has to switch off anyway in order to be able to bring the car to a targeted stop. Behavior during emergency braking In exceptional situations, emergency braking can overwhelm even experienced drivers and should ideally be practiced as part of a driver safety training course. The ABS control cycle causes the brake pedal to vibrate and the entire car begins to rattle and stutter. Nevertheless, keep your foot on the brakes with full force. The system will react accordingly even if the steering wheel is turned. The stutter brake that was often taught in the past, where the brake pedal was pressed and periodically released, is counterproductive in vehicles with ABS. Sensor ring from febi bilstein Very popular: ABS / driving dynamics control in the following cars Seat Alhambra ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Altea ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Arosa ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Ibiza-III ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Leon ABS / driving dynamics controlAudi 100 ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Toledo-I ABS / driving dynamics controlAudi A2 ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Toledo-II ABS / driving dynamics controlAudi A3 ABS / driving dynamics controlThe brake fluid released when the pressure is reduced is collected by a pressure accumulator and returned to the master cylinder brake circuit by means of a return pump. The pressure rises there before the first valve is opened again. The driver perceives the rapid changes in the ABS control cycle as vibrations in the brake pedal. Wheel speed sensor from Becker What happens if the ABS fails? Fortunately, most braking processes only take place when there is little slip and the ABS does not have to intervene. In these cases, the braking system works like a normal dual-circuit system, with the brake pressure from the master cylinder acting on the wheel cylinders without reduction. If the ABS fails, the valves are pressed into their original positions by springs (valve 1: open, valve 2: closed), so that unassisted braking is still possible. When driving at walking pace, the ABS has to switch off anyway in order to be able to bring the car to a stop. Behavior during emergency braking In exceptional situations, emergency braking can overwhelm even experienced drivers and should ideally be practiced as part of a driver safety training course. The ABS control cycle causes the brake pedal to vibrate and the entire car to rattle and stutter. Nevertheless, keep the brakes on with full force. The system will react accordingly even if you turn the steering wheel. The stuttering brake, which was often taught in the past, where the brake pedal was pressed and released periodically, is counterproductive in vehicles with ABS. Sensor ring from febi bilstein Very popular: ABS / driving dynamics control in the following cars Seat Alhambra ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Altea ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Arosa ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Ibiza-III ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Leon ABS / driving dynamics controlAudi 100 ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Toledo-I ABS / driving dynamics controlAudi A2 ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Toledo-II ABS / driving dynamics controlAudi A3 ABS / driving dynamics controlThe brake fluid released when the pressure is reduced is collected by a pressure accumulator and returned to the master cylinder brake circuit by means of a return pump. The pressure rises there before the first valve is opened again. The driver perceives the rapid changes in the ABS control cycle as vibrations in the brake pedal. Wheel speed sensor from Becker What happens if the ABS fails? Fortunately, most braking processes only take place when there is little slip and the ABS does not have to intervene. In these cases, the braking system works like a normal dual-circuit system, with the brake pressure from the master cylinder acting on the wheel cylinders without reduction. If the ABS fails, the valves are pressed into their original positions by springs (valve 1: open, valve 2: closed), so that unassisted braking is still possible. When driving at walking pace, the ABS has to switch off anyway in order to be able to bring the car to a stop. Behavior during emergency braking In exceptional situations, emergency braking can overwhelm even experienced drivers and should ideally be practiced as part of a driver safety training course. The ABS control cycle causes the brake pedal to vibrate and the entire car to rattle and stutter. Nevertheless, keep the brakes on with full force. The system will react accordingly even if you turn the steering wheel. The stuttering brake, which was often taught in the past, where the brake pedal was pressed and released periodically, is counterproductive in vehicles with ABS. Sensor ring from febi bilstein Very popular: ABS / driving dynamics control in the following cars Seat Alhambra ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Altea ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Arosa ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Ibiza-III ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Leon ABS / driving dynamics controlAudi 100 ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Toledo-I ABS / driving dynamics controlAudi A2 ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Toledo-II ABS / driving dynamics controlAudi A3 ABS / driving dynamics controlBehavior during emergency braking In exceptional situations, emergency braking can be too much for even experienced drivers and should ideally be practiced as part of a driver safety training course. The ABS control cycle causes the brake pedal to vibrate and the entire car begins to rattle and stutter. Nevertheless, keep the brakes on with full force. The system will react accordingly even if you turn the steering wheel. The stuttering brake, which was often taught in the past, where the brake pedal was pressed and released periodically, is counterproductive in vehicles with ABS. Sensor ring from febi bilstein Very popular: ABS / driving dynamics control in the following cars Seat Alhambra ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Altea ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Arosa ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Ibiza-III ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Leon ABS / driving dynamics controlAudi 100 ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Toledo-I ABS / driving dynamics controlAudi A2 ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Toledo-II ABS / driving dynamics controlAudi A3 ABS / driving dynamics controlBehavior during emergency braking In exceptional situations, emergency braking can be too much for even experienced drivers and should ideally be practiced as part of a driver safety training course. The ABS control cycle causes the brake pedal to vibrate and the entire car begins to rattle and stutter. Nevertheless, keep the brakes on with full force. The system will react accordingly even if you turn the steering wheel. The stuttering brake, which was often taught in the past, where the brake pedal was pressed and released periodically, is counterproductive in vehicles with ABS. Sensor ring from febi bilstein Very popular: ABS / driving dynamics control in the following cars Seat Alhambra ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Altea ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Arosa ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Ibiza-III ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Leon ABS / driving dynamics controlAudi 100 ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Toledo-I ABS / driving dynamics controlAudi A2 ABS / driving dynamics controlSeat Toledo-II ABS / driving dynamics controlAudi A3 ABS / driving dynamics control"
Braking system	Brake pads			"To buy first-class brake pads, which are sometimes also called brake blocks, you should contact a reliable dealer who has experience in selling car spare parts and car accessories. After all, the brake pads, which are also occasionally called brake blocks, are safety-relevant and have to be replaced several times over the course of a car's life. In the kfzteile24 online shop you will find brake pads from well-known brand manufacturers such as Bosch, ATE, f.becker, Blue Print and of course Brembo, the world market leader for brake systems. But even a particularly cheap brake pad in the bargain category impresses with a high and consistent coefficient of friction. In addition to the quality of the brake pads offered, kfzteile24 is particularly proud of the fast delivery of the parts. Brake pads and warning contacts for brake pad wear are usually in stock and are dispatched within 24 hours of the order. So that you can buy without risk, conveniently and safely, we grant a full 365-day right of return. Brake pad for Becker Sportsline How brake pads work Brake pads or brake blocks are glued to the pad carrier in disc brakes and pressed onto the brake disc by the brake piston(s) in the brake calliper. The friction between the rotating disc and the brake pad converts kinetic energy into heat. Both the brake disc and the brake pad are subject to wear, with the brake pad being designed in such a way that the friction material wears out much more quickly. The high loads place high demands on the material. The friction pad must have high mechanical and thermal strength, generate consistent friction even at high temperatures and also be quiet when braking. Brake pads must not be affected by water or dirt or corrode, and glazing of the surface in hot weather is also undesirable. Finally, the brake blocks must be good heat conductors in order to be able to dissipate heat to surrounding components and promote cooling of the disc brake. In order to meet all of these requirements, research is constantly being carried out and every brake pad manufacturer has its own recipe. Material of brake pads Many manufacturers have several mixtures for their brake pads, the exact composition of which is usually kept strictly secret. In addition to metals, resins, ceramic fibers, graphite, carbon or aromatic polyamides such as Kevlar are also used. They are grouped into four friction agent categories. Brake pads with a low metal content (low-metallic), medium metal content (semi-metallic), organic components (organic) or with ceramic components (ceramic) each offer advantages and disadvantages. Metallic brake pads, for example, are particularly inexpensive and durable and offer excellent braking behavior even under high thermal loads.A large proportion of current brake pads have metallic components. Organic brake pads made of glass, rubber, carbon or Kevlar fibers tend to be a little softer and therefore particularly quiet and comfortable. Ceramic brake pads are a new development. The mild abrasives protect the brake disc and significantly reduce the amount of brake dust on the rim. Ceramic brake pads can also help extend the life of the brake disc under normal driving conditions. However, they should not be confused with high-performance or racing brake pads, as used in motorsport. Such brake pads are not necessary for everyday traffic and are exorbitantly expensive.Very popular: Brake pads for the following cars Seat Alhambra brake padsSeat Altea brake padsOpel Astra-F brake padsOpel Astra-G brake padsSeat Arosa brake padsOpel Astra-H brake padsOpel Astra-J brake padsSeat Ibiza-III brake padsOpel Calibra-A brake padsOpel Combo brake pads"
Braking system	Brake set			"The brakes are the most important safety system in a car and should therefore be checked regularly. When the warning contact on the brake pads sounds the alarm, it is time to take a closer look at the brakes. After all, they are wearing parts that use friction to convert kinetic energy into heat and wear each other down. The fact that the brake pads usually have to be changed before the brake disc is for economic reasons. They are much cheaper to manufacture and are therefore designed to be a little softer than the brake disc. But the brake disc also loses material over time and eventually reaches its wear limit. Even if the brake disc is still the minimum thickness specified by the manufacturer, it should be changed together with the brake pads if it is expected that it will have to be replaced before the next brake pad change. After all, visits to the workshop also cost money. As a rule of thumb, you can therefore remember that the brake discs should be replaced every other time the brake pads are changed. A suitable brake set as a complete kit contains all the necessary parts for this. Brake set for all necessary parts If the brakes are worn out, we recommend buying a brake set, as it contains not only the brake pads but also the brake discs and, depending on the vehicle and manufacturer, warning contacts and assembly parts such as the necessary clamps, sheets or grease. The brake set is therefore not only the ideal answer to the question of what you need to change the brakes, but also saves you a long search. Buying a complete brake set is convenient for the customer and at the same time inexpensive. After all, manufacturers such as ATE, Brembo or Zimmermann also benefit from being able to sell you the complete package. What should you look out for in a brake set? A set of brakes is always the right choice if you have not made any changes to the vehicle and only want to replace the parts installed by the manufacturer that are now worn out. In this case, simply select the car in our shop and keep an eye on the axle. The front and rear brakes are different, with the rear axle usually being smaller. It is advisable to compare the diameter of the installed brake disc and the hole pattern with the information on the desired brake set. A brake kit can also have directional brake discs. This is especially the case with sporty vehicles and on the front axle. When installing, it is therefore important to maintain the correct installation position, otherwise the air flow that is actually supposed to cool the brake disc would push the heat generated towards the wheel hub. Brake set complete with brake pads and brake discs In addition to the brake discs and brake pads, the warning contacts and the installation material can also be included in the scope of delivery of a brake set. (Image:stockphoto-graf @fotolia.com) Can you change the brakes yourself with a brake set? In a brake set you will find everything you need to change the brakes, but we recommend that you leave the actual work to a specialist workshop. Any fault in this crucial system can be costly and even life-threatening. In addition, special tools are often required, for example to turn back the brake pistons on the rear axle without damaging the adjustment device. Also note that new brakes should always be run in, i.e. not subjected to full load immediately if possible. So take it easy after installation and try to avoid emergency braking. This allows the brake pads and brake discs of your new brake set to adjust to each other and there will be no localized loads that manifest themselves in grooves or uneven contact patterns, which are often accompanied by unpleasant rubbing of the brakes."
Braking system	Brake fluid reservoir			"The service brake of a modern car brake system is usually operated hydraulically using brake fluid. You can of course buy the right brake fluid reservoir cheaply online at kfzteile24. As with all spare parts and accessories, we also attach great importance to quality when it comes to brake fluid reservoirs and offer branded goods from ATE, Bosch or febi bilstein. We also regularly test the particularly inexpensive alternatives in the bargain category for quality. You don't have to rely on our promise either, because we offer you a full 365-day right of return. So you can buy without risk! Thanks to our many years of experience as an online expert in the trade in car accessories and spare parts, we also know that in addition to quality, fast delivery in particular makes our customers happy. We usually ship purchased parts within 24 hours of the order. If you have any questions about the brake system in general and brake fluid reservoirs in particular, our support team will be happy to help you. Brake fluid reservoir from the kfzteile24 price-hammer category Function of a brake fluid reservoir The brake fluid reservoir acts as a kind of tank for the brake fluid in the car. As an expansion tank, its job is to always provide enough brake fluid to operate the hydraulic brake system. Since brake fluid is highly toxic and acts like a solvent on paint, the containers are often made of transparent plastic. But that's not the only reason why the brake fluid reservoir has to be absolutely leak-proof. Due to the hygroscopic properties of brake fluid, there must be no leaks at the filler cap either. Otherwise, the brake fluid would absorb moisture from the air and dilute it. This lowers the boiling point and, when the brake is subjected to high loads, vapor bubbles can form within the system. However, the bubbles can be compressed, which means that the pressure from the master brake cylinder is not passed on to the wheel cylinders. A brake failure is the result, which the driver experiences as depressing the brake pedal without any effect. If you find yourself in this life-threatening situation, press the brake pedal several times in quick succession to pump more brake fluid from the brake fluid reservoir into the hydraulic system."
Braking system	Brake force regulator			"As a specialist in the trade of spare parts and car accessories, kfzteile24 also offers brake force regulators in its online shop. Brake force regulators are also called brake pressure reducers, brake pressure regulators, brake force distributors or brake force limiters and are mechanical components that were used before the triumph of the anti-lock braking system (ABS). The brake force regulators available from kfzteile24 meet the highest standards and come from well-known brand manufacturers such as ATE, Bosch, f.becker, Brembo or Blue Print. The particularly affordable brake pressure reducers in the bargain category also meet all requirements and prove that quality does not have to be expensive. See for yourself and buy without risk, because kfzeile24 grants a full 365-day right of return. Thanks to our well-stocked central warehouse with over a million parts, we can usually ship ordered goods within 24 hours. The fast delivery delights private customers as well as car repair shops, petrol stations and breakdown services. If you have any questions about the brake system in general and the brake force regulator in particular, our friendly and competent service team will be happy to help you. Load-dependent brake force regulator Task of a brake force regulator When braking, a dynamic axle load shift occurs, which depends on the magnitude of the braking deceleration, the vehicle load, the load distribution and the height of the center of gravity. If a car brakes on a straight stretch, the front axle is loaded and the rear axle is relieved. If you brake hard, this physical law can cause the wheels on the relieved rear axle to lock at the same brake pressure and the vehicle to skid. However, brake force regulators or brake pressure reducers use valves to limit the hydraulic pressure of the brake fluid and thus prevent the car from overbraking and skidding. This can happen either statically from a predetermined brake pressure (e.g. 40 bar) or dynamically depending on the load. A load-dependent brake force regulator (LAB) is connected to the rear axle via a lever, which ""bends"" according to the load. The LAB increases the flow rate of brake fluid by adjusting the lever position. If the car pitches forward during an emergency stop, the rear axle is relieved and ""levered out"" so that the LAB limits the supply of brake fluid. Brake force control as part of the ABS Modern cars generally no longer have brake force regulators. Instead, the anti-lock braking system (ABS) takes over this function through electronic brake force distribution. The advantage of this solution is the targeted control of each individual wheel and the low susceptibility of the system to errors. Although brake force regulators generally also work without wear,but the mechanical components such as springs or levers in load-dependent brake pressure reducers are often exposed to corrosion and dirt. Static brake force regulator Very popular: Brake force regulator in the following cars Seat Toledo-I brake force regulatorVW Golf-II brake force regulatorVW Golf-III brake force regulatorVW Passat brake force regulatorVW Polo brake force regulatorVW Transporter-T4 brake force regulator"
Braking system	Brake booster			"At kfzteile24 you can get high-quality brake boosters alongside many other replacement and wear parts for cars. As part of a hydraulic brake system in a car, they serve to increase the braking force or brake pressure. You could also say the other way around that the driver has to apply less force to achieve the same braking performance. Of course, we also set high quality standards for our brake boosters and work with well-known brand manufacturers such as ATE, Bosch, Blue Print or f.becker. In addition to brake boosters, you can also buy pressure sensors, repair kits and connection pieces cheaply online from us. The ordered goods are usually in stock and we ship them within 24 hours. You take no risk, because kfzteile24 grants a full 365-day right of return. Try it out! If you have any questions about brake boosters, our trained and friendly service team will be happy to help you. Brake booster from Blue Print Function of a brake booster Brake boosters are necessary in purely hydraulic braking systems because, on the one hand, the performance of modern cars is constantly increasing and, on the other hand, additional comfort and safety systems increase the weight of the car. In order to be able to safely decelerate heavy and at the same time fast vehicles, the force the driver can apply via the brake pedal is usually not enough. Brake boosters therefore support the brake application. This is usually done by means of a vacuum, which tensions a working diaphragm in the resting position. When the brakes are applied, the pressure is equalized and the difference between atmospheric pressure and the previously generated vacuum acts as a force in the same direction as the pedal force. The vacuum is generated behind the throttle valve in the intake manifold in gasoline engines or by a vacuum pump in diesel engines. The comparatively small pressure differences require a large diaphragm area of ??the brake booster in order to be able to generate a correspondingly high force. Brake boosters are therefore comparatively large components with a diameter of up to 28 cm. If there is less space available, smaller brake boosters can also be installed one after the other in a tandem brake booster to achieve the same effect. Electrohydraulic brake systems, which use sensors to detect the driver's braking request, take a different approach. Braking itself is carried out by a suitable control unit in combination with other auxiliary systems such as ABS. The necessary brake pressure is generated by a high-pressure pump. Functional testing of brake boosters To test a brake booster, the engine is first switched off and the brake pedal is pressed several times until strong resistance is felt. In this way, any vacuum that may still be present in the system is used up.The brake pedal is now held down and the engine is started. If the brake pedal now gives way, the booster is OK. A leaky membrane can be recognized if the engine is switched off when the brake is depressed. If the pedal comes up against the force of your leg after a short time, the membrane is leaking. When towing vehicles with a brake booster, be aware that significantly more force is required to operate the brake when the engine is switched off and drive accordingly carefully. Pressure sensor for the brake booster from Bosch Very popular: brake booster in the following cars Seat Altea brake boosterSeat Leon brake boosterBMW 3 brake boosterAudi A3 brake boosterSeat Toledo-III brake boosterVW Golf-Plus brake boosterVW Golf-V brake boosterVW Golf-VI brake boosterVW Transporter-T4 brake boosterSkoda Octavia brake booster"
Braking system	Brake lines			
Braking system	Brake light switch			"The kfzteile24 warehouse is always filled with more than a million spare parts and car accessories. Brake light switches for all common car brands such as VW, Opel or Ford are usually delivered within 24 hours. In addition to fast delivery, we are also characterized by reasonable prices, high quality and competent service. For example, you can buy brake light switches from well-known brand manufacturers such as Hella, febi bilstein, Bosch or Blue Print online in the shop at reasonable prices. But our inexpensive alternatives also meet all requirements. As a reliable partner for automotive spare parts, not only private customers but also car repair shops, petrol stations and breakdown services trust us. Our friendly service team will also competently take care of all your concerns and will be happy to advise you if you have any questions. Brake light switch from Hella The brake light switch: small component with a big effect The brake light switch gets its name from the fact that it activates the brake lights when braking. However, this does not adequately describe its function in modern cars, as it also transmits this information to numerous electronic components such as the engine management system, the vehicle dynamics control system (ESP) and the anti-lock braking system (ABS). Brake light switches can be used as a double switch together with a brake pedal switch so that the position of the brake pedal can be checked for plausibility. If one of these components is defective, this can lead to strange error messages and unusual behavior of the car. The warning signals from the ABS or ESP may light up. The signals may just flicker and then disappear when the vehicle is restarted. Reduced engine performance or even a standstill can also be a result of a broken brake light switch, because the engine management system does not pay attention to the position of the accelerator pedal when the brake is activated for safety reasons. If you notice a similar problem in your vehicle, it is worth taking a look at the brake light switch. It is usually located near the brake pedal and could have broken due to corrosion or mechanical stress. Very popular: Brake light switch in the following cars Audi A2 brake light switchAudi TT brake light switchBMW 3 brake light switchVW Lupo brake light switchBMW 5 brake light switchBMW 7 brake light switchMercedes-Benz 190 brake light switchMercedes-Benz C-Class brake light switchMercedes-Benz CLK brake light switchSkoda Octavia brake light switch"
Braking system	Brake caliper			"As a specialist in the trade of spare parts and car accessories, kfzteile24 naturally also stocks brake calipers for disc brakes, as well as brake caliper paint for the right look and numerous useful individual parts such as springs, pistons, guide sleeves or sealing kits. We attach great importance to quality and offer brake calipers and brake caliper parts from well-known brand manufacturers such as ATE, Bosch, f.becker or febi bilstein as well as paints from Foliatec and raidhp. With every brake caliper in our shop you can be sure that it meets all requirements because we regularly check the quality. Because we are confident in our offer, we also give you a 365-day right of return. This means you can test kfzteile24 without risk. Thanks to fast shipping, usually within 24 hours, we are also a reliable partner for workshops, breakdown services and petrol stations. Our friendly support team will be happy to answer your questions about brake calipers. We look forward to your call! Brake caliper as a floating caliper with a brake piston The task of the brake caliper The brake caliper houses the brake piston(s) with the brake pads and encloses the brake disc. Together, these components enable the vehicle to brake. The brake caliper usually works without wear and only needs to be replaced if the piston guide no longer functions smoothly and the clearance between the brake pad and the brake disc is no longer sufficient after braking. The resulting friction otherwise leads to high wear and high heat development with correspondingly negative consequences for the braking effect. Spare parts and accessories for the brake caliper Depending on the type of damage or the problem that occurs, it is not necessarily necessary to replace the entire brake caliper. In some cases, changing the guide sleeves, guide bolts, springs, seals or pistons is completely sufficient. These brake caliper parts can be replaced inexpensively. However, we recommend leaving this work to an experienced automotive specialist, after all, brakes are safety-relevant. However, even laypeople can visually enhance the brake caliper by painting it with paint. If you own stylish, large rims that allow a view of the brake disc and brake calliper, you can set highlights and accents by choosing a clever color. But be sure to follow the manufacturer's instructions and work carefully so that the paint stays on the brake calliper and does not dirty the rest of the car. Brake calliper paints are available in many unusual colors. Very popular: Brake calliper on the following cars Seat Alhambra brake calliperSeat Altea brake calliperOpel Astra-F brake calliperOpel Astra-G brake calliperSeat Arosa brake calliperOpel Astra-H brake calliperSeat Ibiza-III brake calliperOpel Calibra-A brake calliperOpel Combo brake calliperOpel Corsa-A brake calliper"
Braking system	Brake discs			"Table of contents Structure and function of disc brakes How are brake discs optimized? Material, wear and changing the brake disc What should you look out for when buying brake discs? The right brake disc for every need Changing the brake discs The advantages of kfzteile24 Brake disc in brief Cars with disc brakes slow down by braking the brake disc mounted on the wheel side through the pressure of the brake pads using frictional resistance. Kinetic energy is converted into heat. The braking process places mechanical stress on the brake disc and causes it to wear. However, brake discs are designed in such a way that the brake pads wear out more quickly. A brake set contains both. 1. Structure and function of disc brakes Disc brakes are the most common form of service brake prescribed by law in vehicles. The braking effect results from the friction between the brake disc and the brake pads, which are attached to the brake piston and are pressed against the rotating brake disc when the brake is applied. Due to the flat braking surfaces, disc brakes do not have any self-reinforcing properties and require high contact forces. Compared to drum brakes, larger brake cylinders and additional brake boosters are therefore required. On the other hand, this property means that they are easy to control, as there are hardly any fluctuations in braking force. They also have the advantage that the brake disc is well cooled, which means that there is little tendency towards so-called fading. Fading describes the loss of braking effect due to the heating of the brake components involved. Another advantage of disc brakes is the easy maintenance and quick replacement of wearing parts: brake pad and brake disc. Ventilated brake discs from Becker 2. How are brake discs optimized? Since the invention of disc brakes at the beginning of the 20th century, brake discs have been optimized in many different ways in order to continuously improve their response in wet conditions, strength, weight and temperature development. Grooves, slots, holes Oval grooves or holes on the brake disc promise faster drainage of water from wet discs and thus better braking effect. Together with slots, they are also intended to improve heat dissipation. Grooves, slots and holes also help to reduce weight, which is relevant in the high-performance sector. The disadvantage of this technology is that the brake disc can break more quickly due to tension and must be replaced more often. The brake pads also generally wear out more quickly. Two-part brake disc With two-part brake discs, the carrier pot that is screwed to the wheel hub is made of aluminum, which reduces the weight of the brake disc and also promotes heat dissipation at the hub and rim; after all, the light metal conducts heat four times better than steel.Integral discs are cast from two different metals in a composite cast. They expand when heated and contract again when cooled. This prevents tension and suppresses the formation of cracks. Integral discs always remain flat and protect the brake pads. Heat treatment During production, the brake disc is heated and cooled according to a defined process in order to achieve a uniform structure. The material can dissipate heat more quickly and warps less. Internal ventilation Internally ventilated brake discs contain radially arranged air channels that create a fan effect when rotated, which cools the brake disc better. Despite their greater width and weight, internally ventilated brake discs have become popular in vehicles. 3. Material, wear and replacement of the brake disc Brake discs are usually made of cast iron, malleable cast iron or cast steel. Carbon fiber reinforced plastic or ceramic-carbon composite materials are also used for high-performance sports cars. These brake discs are characterized by high braking performance, wear resistance and insensitivity to fading and are also used in aircraft construction. Nevertheless, even the best brake disc is subject to natural wear and tear and must be replaced as soon as the wear limit defined by the manufacturer is reached. This specifies the minimum thickness of the brake disc to prevent it from cracking or breaking under load. If only the brake pads are replaced, the brake disc must be at least as thick as the amount of material that has already been removed from the disc, minus the specified minimum thickness. If this is no longer the case, the brake disc must also be replaced. When replacing the brake disc, however, the brake pads must always be replaced. Depending on the material, driving style and route conditions, it is usual to replace brake discs every 30,000 to 100,000 km. By the way, brake discs are always changed on both sides of an axle at the same time and it is advisable to buy a brake set. Perforated, internally ventilated brake disc Sports cars and SUVs are usually equipped with ventilated brake discs at the front and rear. (Image: cla78 @shutterstock.com) 4. What should you look out for when buying brake discs? 4.1 Vehicle type First, you need to specify the vehicle for which you are looking for new brake discs. At kfzteile24, you can select the right car using the KBA number from the Federal Motor Vehicle Authority. You can find the number in the registration certificate part 1 under points 2.1 and 2.2. If you don't have the certificate to hand, you can also specify the manufacturer, model and engine to limit the selection of brake discs. 4.2 Diameter of a brake disc The diameter of the brake disc differs considerably depending on the car and varies greatly even for a selected model. In general, larger brake discs promise better heat dissipation and therefore suffer less from fading under load. The braking effect also increases with the diameter of the disc. Large brake discs are used in particular in high-powered vehicles and in motorsports. The possible diameter of a brake disc is limited by the size of the rim. Incidentally, the maximum diameter of the brake disc is stamped on some brake calipers. If this is not the case, an internet search may help you. To be on the safe side and to determine the diameter of your brake disc without any ifs and buts, you can simply measure. 4.3 Front or rear axle? Brake discs are usually dimensioned differently for the front and rear axles. When buying a brake disc, therefore, pay attention to the installation axle. 4.4 Chassis or PR number? In order to correctly assign brake discs, the chassis or PR number (VW, Skoda, Seat, Audi) must be taken into account, as despite the same model, different brake discs are used depending on the equipment. 4.5 Internally ventilated or solid disc? Brake discs are available both as solid discs and (internally) ventilated. When buying a brake disc, make sure you choose the right model, as internally ventilated discs are wider than solid discs. 5. Changing the brake discs Changing the brake discs is a job for the specialist workshop, after all, the brakes are the primary safety system of a car and any error can end catastrophically. The specialist will always change the brake discs axle by axle, i.e. on both sides of the car, to ensure directional stability during deceleration. The workshop will also check the contact pattern to ensure that the brake pads are evenly applied and that the brake calliper of a floating calliper is movable. Of course, the brake pads will also be replaced and the brake system bled afterwards. After changing the brake discs, there is a running-in phase of around 500 km. During the running-in phase, you should avoid excessive braking if possible. This gives the brake pads and the brake discs time to get used to each other. This prevents grooves from forming and annoying brake judder. 6. The right brake disc for every need In the kfzteile24 online shop, you will find brake discs from the brand manufacturers ATE, Bosch and Becker, which stand for excellent quality and have years of experience in the manufacturing process. With Brembo, we also offer brake discs from the world market leader. The Italian specialist for braking systems is known above all for its commitment to motorsports and has equipped countless Formula 1 world champion teams since 1975.But price-conscious car lovers also get their money's worth at kfzteile24, because with our bargain offers we offer cheap brake discs with an unbeatable price-performance ratio. Of course, these brake discs also meet all requirements and are regularly checked by our quality management. When you buy a brake set, the matching brake pads are included. a brake disc as a solid disc 7. You can buy brake discs at kfzteile24! At kfzteile24 you not only buy brake discs cheaply, but you can also receive the goods quickly thanks to fast delivery. Brake discs ordered are usually dispatched within 24 hours! Since we also offer a 365-day right of return, you can buy without risk and order conveniently and safely online. If you have any questions about brake discs in particular or spare parts in general, please contact our service team. Our employees are regularly trained and will be happy to advise you. Support is also available to help and advise you with other concerns. Top brake discs in our online shop. ATE brake disc - VW Golf III ATE brake disc - VW Golf III ATE brake disc for the VW Golf III with a diameter of 239 mm and a brake disc thickness of 12 mm. Item number: 24.0112-0106.1 ATE brake disc - Audi A3 ATE brake disc - Audi A3 ATE brake disc for the Audi A3 with a diameter of 253 mm and a brake disc thickness of 10 mm. Item number: 24.0110-0277.1 ATE brake disc - VW Golf III ATE brake disc - VW Golf III ATE brake disc for the VW Golf III with a diameter of 239 mm and a brake disc thickness of 20 mm. Article number: 24.0120-0123.1 Very popular: Brake discs for the following cars Seat Alhambra brake discsSeat Altea brake discsOpel Agila-B brake discsOpel Astra-F brake discsSeat Arosa brake discsOpel Astra-G brake discsOpel Astra-H brake discsOpel Astra-J brake discsSeat Ibiza-III brake discsOpel Calibra-A brake discsthen please contact our service team. Our employees are regularly trained and will be happy to advise you. Our support team is also available to help and advise you with other concerns. Top brake discs in our online shop. ATE brake disc - VW Golf III ATE brake disc - VW Golf III ATE brake disc for the VW Golf III with a diameter of 239 mm and a brake disc thickness of 12 mm. Item number: 24.0112-0106.1 ATE brake disc - Audi A3 ATE brake disc - Audi A3 ATE brake disc for the Audi A3 with a diameter of 253 mm and a brake disc thickness of 10 mm. Item number: 24.0110-0277.1 ATE brake disc - VW Golf III ATE brake disc - VW Golf III ATE brake disc for the VW Golf III with a diameter of 239 mm and a brake disc thickness of 20 mm. Article number: 24.0120-0123.1 Very popular: Brake discs for the following cars Seat Alhambra brake discsSeat Altea brake discsOpel Agila-B brake discsOpel Astra-F brake discsSeat Arosa brake discsOpel Astra-G brake discsOpel Astra-H brake discsOpel Astra-J brake discsSeat Ibiza-III brake discsOpel Calibra-A brake discsthen please contact our service team. Our employees are regularly trained and will be happy to advise you. Our support team is also available to help and advise you with other concerns. Top brake discs in our online shop. ATE brake disc - VW Golf III ATE brake disc - VW Golf III ATE brake disc for the VW Golf III with a diameter of 239 mm and a brake disc thickness of 12 mm. Item number: 24.0112-0106.1 ATE brake disc - Audi A3 ATE brake disc - Audi A3 ATE brake disc for the Audi A3 with a diameter of 253 mm and a brake disc thickness of 10 mm. Item number: 24.0110-0277.1 ATE brake disc - VW Golf III ATE brake disc - VW Golf III ATE brake disc for the VW Golf III with a diameter of 239 mm and a brake disc thickness of 20 mm. Article number: 24.0120-0123.1 Very popular: Brake discs for the following cars Seat Alhambra brake discsSeat Altea brake discsOpel Agila-B brake discsOpel Astra-F brake discsSeat Arosa brake discsOpel Astra-G brake discsOpel Astra-H brake discsOpel Astra-J brake discsSeat Ibiza-III brake discsOpel Calibra-A brake discs"
Braking system	Brake disc accessories			"Buy warning contacts for brake pad wear and other brake accessories In our accessories category you will find individual parts for the brake system. Warning contacts for brake pad wear are particularly popular. Since the brakes are safety-relevant, but the condition of the brake pads cannot be seen when installed, wear warnings or warning contacts are necessary to inform the driver that they need to be changed. This is often done by incorporating an electrically conductive wire into the brake pad. Due to the abrasion when braking, the conductor will eventually touch the brake disc and the electrical circuit will be closed. A corresponding warning light will initially flicker and then remain lit continuously. Change the brake pads at this point at the latest. Older and significantly less convenient are wear warnings with a wear spring that vibrates. The result is a high and annoying squeaking noise when braking, which prompts a visit to the workshop. Clips for the brake pads, locking springs, screws and sensor rings. Accessories for a disc brake also include screws, splash plates, locking springs, retaining clips or sensor rings for the ABS. When buying, make sure you choose the correct installation side, whereby the information is always given from the driver's perspective. At kfzteile24 you can choose between products from renowned brands such as ATE, f.becker line, Brembo, Bosch, febi bilstein or Blue Print. We also offer you particularly cheap alternatives as a kfzteile24 price hammer. Of course, these accessories also meet all requirements and are regularly checked by our quality management. Buy brake accessories at kfzteile24 As a specialist in the trade of spare parts and accessories, you will of course also find numerous brake components in our online shop. The parts are usually in stock and are usually dispatched within 24 hours of purchase. This is made possible by optimized logistics with a large central warehouse. This means that we can quickly pack purchased brake accessories and send them off. You will usually receive the goods within 1-2 days. Of course, we are also available to answer any questions you may have. A friendly and competent support team will be happy to advise you on technical questions and will assist you in selecting the parts. We see ourselves as a service company that serves your satisfaction and therefore grant a full 365-day right of return. If brake parts you have ordered do not fit or you are dissatisfied with a delivery, you can simply send the goods back. This way you do not take any risk. Try us out!Your advantages at kfzteile24 high-quality parts and regular quality controls low prices and renowned brand manufacturers convenient and safe online purchase 365 day right of return fast shipping usually within 24 hours friendly and competent support Very popular: Brake disc accessories for the following cars Opel Astra-F Brake disc accessories Opel Astra-G Brake disc accessories Seat Arosa Brake disc accessories Opel Astra-H Brake disc accessories Opel Calibra-A Brake disc accessories Seat Ibiza-III Brake disc accessories Opel Combo Brake disc accessories Opel Corsa-D Brake disc accessories Opel Corsa-E Brake disc accessories Seat Leon Brake disc accessories"
Braking system	Brake hoses			"As a professional online shop with its own workshops, kfzteile24 naturally also offers brake hoses for sale. As part of the braking system, they are essential for hydraulically operating both disc brakes and drum brakes. As with all wear and replacement parts that you can buy cheaply online from us, quality is also the top priority with brake hoses. A good brake hose from e.g. Becker, febi bilstein, ATE, Bosch or Brembo is flexible and stable at the same time. It must be corrosion-resistant and must not burst or tear even if it is hit by stones. As a spare part that needs to be replaced relatively frequently, the right brake hose for your car is usually in stock and can be shipped within 24 hours of ordering. The fast delivery of car accessories and car parts pleases private customers and professional workshops alike. As a reliable partner, kfzteile24 also grants a full 365-day right of return. Brake hose from Becker Replacing a defective brake hose A brake hose must always be replaced when the surface has a porous texture. Otherwise, cracks will form over time. Dents in the hose are also a sure indicator that the brake hose should be replaced. If you don't check regularly, you risk the hose even becoming leaky. Makeshift patches should then be avoided in any case in order not to endanger your own safety and the safety of other road users. If you consider the purpose of the brake hose, it becomes clear why tightness is so important. The force initiated by the driver when the brake is applied presses on the piston of the master brake cylinder. This in turn generates the fluid pressure according to Pascal's law because the brake fluid is enclosed on all sides. The pressure generated, which is increased further by the brake booster, reaches the brake via the brake line and brake hose and moves either the brake piston(s) (disc brake) or the brake shoes (drum brake) so that the respective friction lining can take effect. Why does a brake hose tear? Hydraulic or electro-hydraulic brake systems are operated at high pressure, so material fatigue plays a role, but environmental influences and operating fluids from the engine also corrode a brake hose. The rubber becomes porous until the hose becomes leaky over time. Bites from animals - especially martens - can also make it necessary to replace a brake hose. Sure signs of a defective brake hose are leaking brake fluid and reduced braking performance. Brake hose from febi bilstein Very popular:Brake hoses for the following cars Seat Alhambra brake hosesSeat Altea brake hosesOpel Astra-F brake hosesSeat Arosa brake hosesSeat Ibiza-III brake hosesOpel Calibra-A brake hosesOpel Combo brake hosesSeat Leon brake hosesAudi 100 brake hosesAudi 80 brake hoses"
Braking system	Brake cables			"The brake cable is constructed as a Bowden cable, which is also known as a cable pull and is used for the parking brake in cars, among other things. In the kfzteile24 shop you can buy brake cables and many other spare parts cheaply online. We always have more than a million parts and accessories for cars in stock and can therefore usually deliver ordered goods within 24 hours. The fast delivery impresses both private customers and car workshops, breakdown services and petrol stations, which can react flexibly to requirements. We purchase brake cables and cables from well-known brand manufacturers such as Bosch, febi bilstein, ATE, Blue Print or f.becker, but the inexpensive alternatives in our own sales also meet all requirements. Thanks to regular quality controls, kfzteile24 ensures that you only receive flawless goods. Should you nevertheless have reason to complain, then contact our friendly and competent service team. Your satisfaction is our goal! Thanks to our 365-day right of return, you can buy from kfzteile24 without any risk. Test us! Brake cable from Becker Structure and function of a brake cable The cable of a parking brake consists of a tightly wound steel wire that is enclosed in a pressure-resistant casing. This casing, known as the cable casing, protects the wire spiral from corrosion and friction and also serves to mechanically guide the cable. Soft PVC is usually used for this. The cable is connected to the appropriate eyelet on the parking brake using a force-fit clamp or an attached nipple. When the handbrake is operated, the mechanical shortening presses the brake shoes onto the brake drum of the parking brake, so that the vehicle is prevented from rolling away. Brake cables are usually designed to last the life of the car, but can be mechanically damaged by corrosion or if the cable is not routed properly. The brake cable should also be replaced if the dust sleeve is porous or has already torn, otherwise dirt and moisture can penetrate the cable. The corrosion makes the cable immobile (rusts solid) and in winter, water that has penetrated can freeze. In this case, the handbrake can no longer be released. When purchasing, make sure the cable is the right length. Very popular: brake cables for the following cars Seat Altea brake cables Opel Astra-H brake cables Seat Arosa brake cables Seat Leon brake cables Audi 80 brake cables Seat Toledo-I brake cables Audi A3 brake cables Audi Q7 brake cables VW FOX brake cables VW Golf-II brake cables"
Braking system	Parking brake			"The parking brake is required by law for cars and is part of the braking system. You will therefore find all the parts you need for a parking brake at kfzteile24. We value quality and work with well-known brand manufacturers such as ATE, f.becker, febi bilstein, Bosch or Brembo. Ordered spare parts can usually be delivered within 24 hours. As a specialist in the trade in spare parts and car accessories, we are happy to advise you before you buy. Simply contact our friendly and competent service staff. If you have bought a part that does not fit your car - no problem. We offer a full 365-day right of return! Try it out! Fist caliper from f.becker for cars for electronic parking brake Purpose of the parking brake The parking brake is intended to prevent a stopped or parked vehicle from rolling away. This is particularly important on an inclined road. For safety reasons, the law stipulates that the parking brake must work mechanically. The most common form of operation is a hand lever (handbrake), but foot pedals are also sometimes used. The force is transmitted to the wheels of an axle by brake cables or brake rods. Parking brakes vary in their design and usually act on the rear axle of a car. For example, parking brakes are integrated into the floating caliper of the hydraulic service brake or are used electromechanically in various forms. Electromechanical parking brake (motor) In electromechanical systems, the parking brake is operated electrically. A flanged-on electric motor generates a torque that is amplified via a toothed belt and a planetary or swashplate gear. The force acts on the brake piston via a spindle and pressure nut. The motor is switched off as soon as there is sufficient clamping force. This is determined by the current consumption. To release the parking brake, the motor is polarized and energized in the opposite direction. Electromechanical parking brake (actuator) An actuator is a component that is placed between the wheels of the rear axle and works via Bowden cables in a similar way to a mechanical parking brake. However, the driver no longer has to pull a lever or operate a foot pedal, but rather flip a switch. This offers the advantage that the system can also be coupled to other electronic components of the vehicle - e.g. immobilizers or the ESP. Combined floating caliper While the service brake works hydraulically, the parking brake is operated mechanically by cables. This happens when a pressure tappet mounted on an eccentric hits the push rod when it is activated. The push rod in turn rests on the brake piston via the adjustment device and presses it towards the brake disc. Very popular:Parking brake on the following cars Opel Astra-F parking brakeOpel Calibra-A parking brakeAudi Q7 parking brakeBMW 1 parking brakeBMW 3 parking brakeBMW 5 parking brakeVW Multivan-T5 parking brakeBMW 7 parking brakeBMW X1 parking brakeBMW X3 parking brake"
Braking system	filter			
Braking system	Master brake cylinder			"The master brake cylinder is the heart of a hydraulic braking system, as used in modern cars. In order to meet the legal requirement for two independent brake circuits, only tandem master cylinders are installed. In the kfzteile24 shop you can buy suitable master brake cylinders from well-known brand manufacturers for your car online at low prices. We pay attention to quality and work with ATE, Bosch, Brembo, Blue Print or febi bilstein. Master brake cylinders in the bargain category also meet all requirements and are regularly checked for quality by us. Try us without risk, because kfzteile24 grants a full 365-day right of return! In addition to first-class quality and low prices, the delivery time plays an important role for car parts. In order to be able to respond flexibly to your orders, the goods are usually in stock and can usually be shipped within 24 hours of purchase. Tandem master cylinder for a Golf III Function of a tandem master cylinder Rapid pressure build-up In each brake circuit, the necessary pressure must be built up as quickly as possible in order to be able to brake without delay. The driver must be able to slow the car down in accordance with the traffic situation in every situation. Rapid pressure reduction The brakes must be released just as quickly as they are applied. This prevents unnecessary wear on brake pads and brake discs and of course also saves fuel. Volume compensation The volume of fluids changes depending on the temperature and with it the pressure within a closed system. To ensure that the brake pressure always meets the requirements, the master brake cylinder must be connected to the brake fluid expansion tank. Tandem master cylinder with brake fluid tank from Bosch Structure of a master brake cylinder A tandem master cylinder can be imagined as a pressure pipe in which the push rod piston and a floating intermediate piston behind it move. By means of sealing sleeves, both pistons form two separate pressure chambers within the pipe, each of which is filled with brake fluid from the brake fluid reservoir either through a compensating bore or through a central valve. Piston springs and of course the pressure built up by the brake fluid push the pistons back to their rest position when the brake is released. If the first brake circuit behind the push rod piston fails, this is pushed onto the intermediate piston until it stops. The second pressure chamber behind the intermediate piston can now transfer the force to the brakes. If, however, there is a drop in pressure in the second brake circuit, the intermediate piston is pushed back until it stops by the fluid pressure in the front pressure chamber.As it seals the front pressure chamber from the leaky second pressure chamber, the brake still works. The redundancy of the system increases safety, as the simultaneous failure of both brake circuits is very unlikely. Service & Support Do you have questions about the brake system in general or the master brake cylinder in particular? Do not hesitate to contact us. You can reach our friendly service staff on Mondays to Fridays (6:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.) and Saturdays (9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.) on 030 / 40 50 400. They will provide you with expert advice and helpful support with all your concerns before, during and after your purchase. Very popular: Master brake cylinder in the following cars Seat Alhambra Master brake cylinderSeat Altea Master brake cylinderSeat Leon Master brake cylinderAudi A3 Master brake cylinderSeat Toledo-III Master brake cylinderVW Caddy-III Master brake cylinderVW FOX Master brake cylinderVW Golf-Plus Master brake cylinderVW Golf-V Master brake cylinderVW Golf-VI Master brake cylinder"
Braking system	drum brake			"Table of contents Structure and function of a drum brake Advantages and disadvantages of drum brakes Different designs Material, wear and replacement The right brake drum for every need The advantages of kfzteile24 Drum brake in brief With drum brakes, the brake drum is mounted on the wheel hub or the axle journal so that it rotates when driving. Brake shoes pressed on from the inside achieve a braking effect through frictional resistance. Drum brakes have largely been replaced by disc brakes as service brakes in cars. However, they are still used in many small cars and, due to their design, are suitable as parking brakes. 1. Structure and function of a drum brake Drum brakes with internal brake shoes were installed as early as 1900 and represent a further development of the external band brake. For a long time they were state of the art for slowing down cars, but were gradually replaced as service brakes with the advent of disc brakes. Drum brakes are now used as service brakes in commercial vehicles, trailers, small cars or off-road vehicles. However, they are still widely used as easy-to-implement parking brakes. The pivotal point of the drum brake is the rotating brake drum and the brake shoes installed on the fixed brake carrier, on which the brake pads are located. When the drum brake is activated, the two inner brake shoes are pressed towards the brake drum and the friction converts kinetic energy into heat, or in the case of parking brakes, prevents the brake drum from rotating and thus the car from rolling away. Tensioning devices used include wheel cylinders (with hydraulic actuation), S-cams (with pneumatic brake cylinders) and expansion locks or tensioning levers (with mechanically actuated parking brakes). They spread the brake shoes and in this way provide the tensioning force with which the brake pads act on the brake drum. Brake drum 2. Advantages and disadvantages of drum brakes Brake shoe set from f.becker In contrast to disc brakes, drum brakes are self-reinforcing, i.e. depending on the design, the tensioning force of at least one brake shoe is increased by the friction force. In this context, one speaks of a running-on brake shoe. Due to the brake force amplification, only low actuation forces are required, but no sensitive dosage is possible. Fluctuations in the friction value of the brake pads can therefore cause the vehicle to skid. On the other hand, the closed design of a drum brake means that the components involved are very well protected against dirt and corrosion, which means they last longer. Also due to the closed design, changing the brake pads is usually difficult and drum brakes are less able to dissipate the heat generated during braking.They are therefore much more prone to heat-related loss of braking effect, which is known as fading. Drum brakes are also generally much heavier than disc brakes, but their design makes it easy to create parking brakes. 3. Types of drum brakes Although drum brakes always consist of a brake drum and two brake shoes, there are a few different types that are primarily dedicated to the topic of self-reinforcement. Drum brakes can of course also be differentiated according to the type of actuation (usually hydraulic or mechanical). Design How it works Simplex brake The simplex brake is the simplest and most common form of drum brake. The two brake shoes are mounted on one side so they can rotate using a fixed support bearing and are pressed onto the brake drum on the other side by a wheel cylinder, S-cam, expanding lock, lever or wedge. The rotation of the drum increases the contact pressure for one of the brake shoes when driving forwards or backwards. As a result, the braking effect is the same in both directions. In practice, however, the brake pads wear differently because you drive forwards more often and then brake more sharply. Duplex brake In contrast to the simplex brake, the brake shoes are mounted in such a way that both brake shoes come into contact. This is achieved by no longer mounting them in one place but opposite each other and spreading them apart by two wheel cylinders or cams that act on one side. Since both shoes are always subjected to the same load, the brake pads wear evenly and the braking effect is doubled when moving forward. Disadvantage: The brake works much less effectively in reverse and duplex brakes are more susceptible to fading. Duo-duplex brake The duo-duplex brake combines the advantages of a simplex brake with those of the duplex brake. Instead of mounting the brake shoes around a pivot point, they are pressed against the brake drum by two wheel cylinders that act on both sides. This means that it is equally effective when driving forwards and backwards and the brake pads wear down evenly. Due to the complex design, duo-duplex brakes are rarely used anymore. Servo brake This form of drum brake is similar to the simplex brake, but the brake shoes are mounted in a floating manner and the supporting force of the leading brake shoe is transferred to the trailing brake shoe via a pressure bolt. As a result, both brake shoes are self-reinforcing - but only in one direction. The high braking effect when driving forwards makes it difficult to dose this brake. Duo-servo brake The duo-servo brake also uses the reinforcement of the leading brake shoe to press the second brake shoe.Since the support bearing is floating and the support is provided by the double-acting wheel cylinder, there are ultimately two brake shoes running together, which always decelerate the car in both directions with maximum braking effect. The duo servo brake is used in trucks and as a parking brake in cars. 4. Material, wear and replacement The brake drum of a drum brake is made of cast iron, malleable cast iron, cast steel or a composite cast of light metal with cast iron. It is low-wear and rarely needs to be replaced. Replacement always takes place when the wear limit specified by the manufacturer is reached. Other damage such as dents or corrosion can also make replacement necessary. The brake pads of the brake shoes can be made of various materials, which can be divided into semi-metallic, low-metallic, organic and ceramic. The exact composition is often a well-kept secret of the respective manufacturer. If they are worn out, they are replaced with a new set of brake shoes. Brake drum from f.becker_line 5. The right drum brake spare parts for every need In the kfzteile24 online shop you will find brake drums and brake shoes from the brand manufacturers ATE, Bosch and f.becker, which stand for excellent quality and have years of experience in the manufacturing process. With Brembo, we also have brake drums and brake shoes from the world market leader on offer. The Italian specialist for braking systems is known above all for its motorsport commitment and has equipped countless world champion teams in Formula 1 since 1975. But price-conscious car fans also get their money's worth at kfzteile24, because with the bargain offers we offer cheap spare parts for the drum brake with an unbeatable price-performance ratio. Of course, these parts also meet all safety requirements and are regularly tested. At kfzteile24 you can buy high-quality spare and wear parts for the drum brake quickly and cheaply online. In over 90 percent of cases we can ship the goods within 24 hours of ordering. Workshops, petrol stations and breakdown services are also happy about the fast delivery. They have to react flexibly to changing needs and have a reliable partner in us. We are confident in our offer and therefore offer you a 365-day right of return. This means you can buy brake drums and brake shoes without any risk. If you have any questions about the topic, our friendly and competent support team is available to advise you and take care of your concerns. Very popular:Drum brake on the following cars Opel Astra-F drum brakeSeat Arosa drum brakeOpel Calibra-A drum brakeSeat Ibiza-III drum brakeOpel Combo drum brakeOpel Corsa-A drum brakeOpel Corsa-C drum brakeAudi 100 drum brakeOpel Corsa-D drum brakeAudi 80 drum brake"
Braking system	Vacuum pump			"In order for brake boosters to be able to increase the brake pressure in the master cylinder when the brake is applied, the supporting membrane must first be pre-tensioned using negative pressure. In diesel vehicles, this requires a vacuum pump or, better yet, a vacuum pump, which you can of course buy cheaply online in the kfzteile24 shop. We focus on quality and offer vacuum pumps from brand manufacturers such as Bosch or febi bilstein. But the pumps and spare parts in the bargain category also meet all requirements and are regularly tested for quality. See for yourself and try us out! You don't take any risks, because kfzteile24 grants a full 365-day right of return. Thanks to our large central warehouse, we can usually ship ordered vacuum pumps within 24 hours of purchase. Vacuum pump/vacuum pump for a Mercedes-Benz 190 Vacuum pump/vacuum pump from febi bilstein Function of the vacuum pump/vacuum pump The vacuum required for the brake booster is generated in gasoline engines behind the throttle valve in the intake manifold. Diesel cars, on the other hand, require a vacuum pump to take on this task. The vacuum can be generated in various ways and the range is accordingly diverse. In the passenger car sector, however, piston pumps with a tappet drive are often used, which function in a similar way to an air pump and are driven by the camshaft. So-called sliding pumps with an eccentric rotating part can also be found in cars. Although the term vacuum pump has become established for the component, the term vacuum pump is more appropriate, as no pump found in the automotive sector is able to create a real vacuum. Incidentally, the vacuum can be used for more than just the brake booster. Depending on the vehicle, the central locking system, the automatic transmission, the injection pump or the cruise control all benefit from a functioning vacuum pump. Service & Support In addition to first-class spare parts and low prices with fast delivery, our focus is on service and advice. A competent team of trained employees is available from Monday to Friday (06:00 - 22:00) and on Saturday (09:00 - 18:00) to answer questions and support you with all concerns. Just call us: 030 / 40 50 400 Very popular: Vacuum pump for the following cars VW Transporter-T4 Vacuum pump"
Braking system	Valves			
Braking system	Wear indicator			"In the kfzteile24 online shop you will find a large selection of warning contacts and wear indicators for the brake pads. We usually keep the corresponding spare parts in stock and can usually deliver the goods within 24 hours of purchase. Our low prices and fast shipping benefit not only private customers but also car workshops, breakdown services and petrol stations. As a specialist in the trade in car accessories and spare parts, we know how important the quality of parts is in the automotive sector and therefore purchase wear indicators from brand manufacturers such as ATE, Bosch, febi bilstein, Blue Print or Brembo. So that you can buy without risk, we also offer a full 365-day right of return. Try it out! If you have any questions about wear indicators or the brake system in general, contact our friendly and trained support team. We will be happy to advise you before you buy! Warning contact for brake pad wear from f.becker Function of wear indicators and warning contacts Brake pads on disc brakes are generally subject to more wear than the brake disc itself and must be replaced several times during the life of the car. As safety-relevant components that are difficult to see, they often have wear indicators that warn the driver before their function is impaired. This can be done either by measuring the electrical resistance, which increases as soon as the brake pad wears down, or by so-called warning contacts, in which a wire is installed within the last few millimeters of the brake pad. If this wire touches the brake disc, a corresponding warning light lights up or flickers. Pay attention to quality when buying wear indicators The challenge in the manufacturing process of a wear indicator is the thermal stress to which the brake pads are exposed. The embedded cable loop must withstand the heat in order to finally be able to establish ground contact. Acoustic wear indicators are also conceivable, in which a flat metal plate is attached to the back of the brake pad. If the thickness of the pad decreases, the metal plate begins to vibrate and produces a high squeaking sound. When changing brake pads or brake discs, please note that they must always be replaced together and on both brakes on one axle. Warning contact for brake pad wear from Brembo Very popular: wear indicators on the following cars Opel Astra-F wear indicator Opel Astra-G wear indicator Opel Astra-H wear indicator Opel Calibra-A wear indicator Seat Leon wear indicator Opel Signum wear indicator Opel Zafira-A wear indicator Audi A3 wear indicator Opel Zafira-B wear indicator Audi A6 wear indicator"
Electrics	Starter			"Since a combustion engine needs energy to start, starters are used in cars. They overcome both the inertia of the engine and the friction and compression resistance. The starter usually consists of an electric motor called a starter motor, an engagement relay and a single-line gear. This in turn includes a pinion and a roller freewheel. The energy required for the starting process is supplied by the starter battery. As soon as the ignition key is inserted and the ignition has been initiated, voltage is applied to the starter and current flows via the engagement relay or the magnetic switch, causing the starter motor to rotate. Once the starting process has been completed by releasing the ignition key, the return spring within the engagement relay moves the engagement lever forwards again and with it the single-line gear back. The connection between the starter and the engine is severed. Starter with 9 teeth on the pinion Structure and function of the starter The current flowing during the ignition process not only ensures that the starter motor rotates, but also that a magnetic field builds up on the pull-in windings within the engagement valve. This causes the engagement lever to be pulled back, causing the starter's single-mesh gear to move towards the flywheel. The flywheel, in turn, has a ring gear installed into it, which is engaged by the starter pinion and then transfers the power to the engine. The gear ratio between the ring gear and the pinion is between 10 and 15, which means that a high torque is achieved on the flywheel. The fuel-air mixture can therefore be compressed and ignited in the cylinders, or ignites itself in the case of a diesel engine. Starter motor The starter motor is a typical electric motor that converts electrical energy into mechanical energy. This uses electromagnetic induction, in which mutually repelling magnetic fields generate movement. Fixing the armature shaft creates rotation with torque. Engagement relay The engagement relay is a combination of an engagement magnet and a relay and is used to advance the single-mesh gear with pinion towards the ring gear. In its relay function, it also switches the starter motor on and off by interrupting the circuit as soon as there is no longer any voltage (ignition key goes back to position 2). Single-gear transmission The single-gear transmission consists of the pinion, the roller freewheel and a meshing spring. The roller freewheel ensures that the power connection between the pinion and the starter motor is broken when the combustion engine starts. Otherwise, the armature would rev too high and ultimately damage the starter motor. The meshing spring helps with meshing when the ring gear and pinion are aligned tooth to tooth."
Electrics	Starter	individual parts		"The starter is an indispensable component of a combustion engine because it supplies the energy needed to overcome the friction and compression resistance of the engine and its mass inertia. It consists of an electric motor, an engagement relay and the engagement gear. In addition to these components, the starter may require other spare parts. The starter motor is supplied with electrical energy via the start switch, also known as the ignition switch, which is transmitted to the engine via the engagement pinion. We also offer bushings for the starter shaft and engagement relays. Bushings for the collector bearing and relays for the start repeat round off our range. Ignition switch for the starter Individual parts for professionals and hobbyists In everyday workshop life, starters are usually replaced as a whole when they are defective and are only dismantled in the rarest of cases. However, if you feel confident enough to take a starter apart and put it back together again, you will find suitable individual parts at kfzteile24. Make sure you use the highest precision, because the tolerances are small. If you would rather go for a new starter, we have interesting offers from well-known manufacturers in stock."
Electrics	generator			"The generator is the proverbial linchpin of a car's electrics. It supplies the electrical consumers with energy and also charges the starter battery. The generator, which is also called the alternator in cars, is usually driven by a V-ribbed belt. This transfers the torque of the crankshaft to the generator freewheel. This special freewheel pulley is mounted on the generator's drive shaft and prevents vibrations and torque fluctuations that could otherwise damage the generator. The regulator controls the generator's excitation current and monitors its function. A car's generator supplies the consumers with energy and charges the battery. Structure and function of a generator Three-phase generators are used in vehicles. These make use of electromagnetic induction, whereby an electric field is created by changing the magnetic flux density. Specifically, a magnet is passed past a conductor loop (coil or winding) and an electrical voltage is generated. Since the magnet rotates and has both a north and south pole, an alternating voltage is always induced, which appears as a sine curve. A normal generator, however, not only has a conductor loop, but the magnet rotating in the middle is guided past three coils. This significantly increases the power and creates a three-phase alternating voltage with phase-shifted sine curves. To further optimize the voltage generation, so-called claw pole rotors are used, which have six north and south poles instead of one north and south pole. The resulting alternating voltage is then rectified in a next step using semiconductor diodes. The corresponding element of the generator is then unsurprisingly called a rectifier. The direct current is necessary because it is the only way to charge the battery and the entire on-board network is based on direct current. Protecting the generator A generator usually uses very different protection systems. The generator freewheel or freewheel pulley compensates for rotational irregularities so that no negative acceleration occurs. Otherwise, the drive shaft of the generator could be damaged due to the inertia. A reverse current blocking device made of positive diodes prevents current from flowing from the battery to the generator if the voltage is lower than that of the battery. Finally, the generator is usually protected by Z-diodes against overvoltage, which can occur, for example, if the regulator fails or there are interruptions in the line. Since the rectification of the alternating current also results in heat loss, the generator is cooled by appropriate metal sheets."
Electrics	Horn			"The horn, also known as a horn, is used to generate sound signals. It is mandatory for cars in Germany and is used to warn of dangers. Outside built-up areas, the horn can also be used to announce an overtaking maneuver, although this is rare in everyday life. The correct use of the horn is important in accordance with Section 16 of the Road Traffic Act, as any other honking is an administrative offence punishable by a standard fine of 10 euros. Therefore, refrain from using the horn, for example, to encourage other road users to drive off at a green light. It is also not permitted to use the horn to draw attention to or complain about the misbehavior of others. Even traditional honking concerts to accompany a newly married couple or after sporting events constitute an administrative offence. Electric horn from Bosch Bosch also produces high-quality horns The horn of a car Horns in cars are usually electrically operated and are often supported by a horn for effective sound radiation. They are designed for short-term use and are not allowed to produce a sequence of different tones in Germany. The only exception to this rule is the siren for emergency vehicles, e.g. police, fire brigade and rescue services. If the sound seems disproportionate, e.g. in built-up areas, a similar effect can be achieved by flashing the headlights. To do this, the high beam headlights are switched on briefly and a strong beam of light is produced."
Electrics	Instruments			"A modern vehicle consists of numerous electronic systems that usually cannot function without instruments such as sensors or switches. Often, the small and inexpensive parts are even the cause of major problems, for example when implausible or contradictory data from the engine control system has to be interpreted. In some cases, this can even lead to the car breaking down. Thanks to OBD-2 error codes, the respective cause can usually be narrowed down, but even the car's modern self-diagnosis can produce misleading results if it is based on incorrect sensor data. The cable connections and contacts of the sensors should therefore always be checked first before complex spare parts are replaced at great expense. Coolant temperature sensor from febi bilstein"
Electrics	Instruments	Sensors/switches (encoders)		"Sensors and measurement technology in general are an indispensable part of modern automotive electronics. They collect data and pass the values ??on to the corresponding control unit. Based on this, the control unit regulates the processes of a wide variety of systems. Sensors not only have an indirect control function, but also monitor the processes. With the help of such control sensors, the control unit can also carry out a plausibility check of other values ??and raise an alarm if there are any deviations. Defective sensors can usually be replaced easily, but troubleshooting can sometimes be difficult. The sensor technology not only works for the respective control units, but also continuously provides the driver of the car with important information about the condition of their car. This includes information about temperatures. If the engine oil is still cold, for example, you should refrain from driving in a sporty manner so as not to accelerate the wear of the unit. The driver must also know at all times what speed the car is traveling at in traffic in order to avoid fines and points on the driving license register. Engine speed, gear selection, interior and exterior temperatures, oil level, oil pressure and of course the kilometers traveled are just some of the many pieces of information that could not be collected without suitable sensors."
Electrics	Instruments	Speedometer cable		"The speed of a car is an important parameter that is of enormous importance to the driver. However, since modern cars are constantly setting new standards in terms of comfort, the speed is often not correctly estimated with human senses. A reliable speedometer can help. The principle of the eddy current speedometer was developed by Otto Schulze in 1902 to transmit the speed of the wheel or gear using a speedometer cable (a flexible cable). This causes a magnet in the speedometer to rotate. The speed is therefore measured indirectly via the speed and depends on the tire size. Speedometer cable from febi bilstein for an Opel Astra F Wear part speedometer cable The speedometer cable is susceptible to wear, because after all, high revolutions sometimes have to be transmitted via a small pinion. If the friction is too great, jerking can lead to a very unstable display and grinding or scratching noises are also possible. These signs are an indication that the speedometer cable will soon need to be replaced. Mechanical transmission in general is rarely used nowadays and speed measurement is usually carried out by incremental encoders."
Electrics	Cable connectors			"The electrics play a crucial role in modern cars. They control and monitor the combustion process of the engine, increase driving safety through assistance systems such as ABS and ESP and finally ensure driving comfort through automatic climate control or navigation systems, among other things. Countless cables are necessary so that the numerous electrical components are supplied with energy and can also communicate with their respective control units. If a comfort system such as a rear view camera or a useful trailer hitch is to be installed later, electrical cables are also essential and only cable connectors enable successful integration. Branch connectors from Dresselhaus Heat shrink connectors from Dresselhaus Principle of cable connectors Cable connectors each create a transition from one electrical cable to another and work according to different principles. Basically, however, the connection must be durable in order to withstand any tensile loads. Furthermore, the transition area must be insulated so that no fault currents occur and the risk of corrosion is minimized. Finally, no major transition resistance must occur in order to avoid heat development and, in the worst case, cable fire. We therefore recommend using suitable cable connectors. With branch connectors, for example, the cables are placed next to each other in the cable connector and cut off by a metal separating clip and simultaneously connected by the conductive material. With butt connectors or crimp connectors, however, the stripped cable ends are mechanically pressed together with a clamp. Heat shrink connectors work in a similar way to crimp connectors, but are then slowly heated with a hot air blower until adhesive comes out. The connection is therefore even better protected against mechanical stress and moisture."
Electrics	to shine	Indicator/tail/daytime running lights		"In order to drive a car safely on the road, you have to see other road users and be seen yourself. For this reason, the law prescribes various lights that a car must have in order to be registered. Rear lights, indicator lights, brake lights, reversing lights or license plate lights are just some of the lights that are necessary. At kfzteile24 you can also get marker lights, rear fog lights, daytime running lights or door lights. Parts of the interior lighting such as lights for the glove compartment, reading lights or instrument lighting are also part of our range. Indicator light from Hella for VW Golf 2 Rear light for VW Golf 5 from Hella Difference between light, lamp and light source In common parlance, the terms light, lamp and light source are often used synonymously, but the distinction is relatively simple. A lamp is a light source that is inserted into a light. At kfzteile24 we maintain this separation and offer light bulbs, LEDs or xenon bulbs primarily in the light source category, while the lights themselves are understood as part of the car's electrics. Main headlights including headlight range adjustment as well as additional lights such as fog lights or high beam headlights each have their own category."
Electrics	to shine	Indicator/tail/daytime running lights	Side marker light	"Paragraph 51 of the Road Traffic Licensing Regulations (StVZO) regulates the use of marker lights. According to this, cars with a width of less than one meter must be equipped with at least two marker lights to mark their side boundaries. This regulation applies analogously to motorcycles, which - provided they do not have a sidecar - are permitted to have a marker light in the headlight. The law also regulates the requirements for marker lights for trailers and forestry and agricultural machinery. In the passenger car sector, the question of use is particularly relevant for trailers. front marker light from Bosch rear marker light The meaning and purpose of marker lights and parking lights A marker light and the clear legal requirements for its installation ensure that the width of a vehicle can be correctly estimated by other road users. They are available as light bulbs, LEDs or reflectors. Parking lights also serve a safety purpose and can be installed at both the front and rear of the vehicle. However, attention must be paid to the color of the light, as red spotlights belong at the rear, while only white light is allowed at the front. The optical markings are intended to prevent the car parked at the side of the road from being overlooked in the dark or in poor visibility conditions."
Electrics	to shine	Indicator/tail/daytime running lights	Side marker light components	"Buy individual parts for marker lights Marker lights are designed to inform oncoming traffic about the actual width of a vehicle in the dark and in poor visibility conditions. They are particularly relevant for trucks and trailers. The law stipulates that the marker lights are always activated with the dipped beam and of course also light up with the high beam. To ensure that the light can be seen as clearly as possible without causing glare, light discs are used, which you can find under the menu item Individual parts for marker lights. The color is determined by the general lighting regulations of the StVZO, ie marker lights at the front are white and those at the rear are red. On the side, e.g. on vehicles with more than two axles, the marker lights are yellow."
Electrics	to shine	Fog/additional lights		"In addition to the mandatory indicators, brake lights or tail lights, you can also buy additional lights at kfzteile24. We have cornering lights, high beams, cornering lights and searchlights on offer, as well as a particularly large selection of fog lights. All of these lighting solutions serve to ensure safety in road traffic. Cornering lights react adaptively to steering angle and speed, for example, and can therefore swivel into a curve and illuminate it. This makes cornering at night much more pleasant for the driver because he can see into the curve. Dangers can also be recognized in good time and the risk of accidents for other road users is reduced. Fog lights for a Ford Focus Fog lights from Hella Large selection of fog lights Fog lights are wide-beam headlights that are usually mounted low on the car and are the only headlights in Germany that are allowed to emit light yellow light instead of white. They may only be used when visibility is significantly impaired by rain, fog or snow and together with the parking lights or dipped beam. Unlike in Austria, for example, use as daytime running lights is not permitted. Of course, we also offer the appropriate bulbs."
Electrics	to shine	Fog/additional lights	Cornering lights	"According to European law, two cornering lights can be fitted to the front of a car to illuminate the target road or driveway when turning. The idea behind these additional lights is to provide a better view of the area to the side, which is usually only inadequately illuminated by the headlights when turning. Cornering lights therefore function in the same way as cornering lights, but the switching conditions are different. Cornering lights can only be used up to a maximum speed of 40 km/h and are activated either by the indicator switch or by turning the steering wheel."
Electrics	to shine	Fog/additional lights	High beam headlights	"Every car must have at least two high beam headlights, which are mandatory in addition to the low beam. The high beam, which is also known as the high beam, can however be supplemented by two additional high beam headlights. They are used to illuminate roads over a wide area in the dark and are also used as a short-term light signal (headlight flasher) to warn other road users of danger. In fog or snow, the mandatory white high beam is not suitable as it leads to the driver blinding himself, so fog lights are used, which can also shine yellow. a round high beam headlight a square high beam headlight from Hella Regulations relating to high beam headlights The high beam of the high beam headlights is also legally linked to numerous regulations and may not, for example, reach a total luminous intensity of more than 430,000 candelas. Numbers near the approval mark provide information on the luminous intensity, with the maximum value of 430,000 cd being regarded as the number 100. If the specified light intensity of the high beam is 25, for example, and two headlights are used, then you get 50/100, or about 215,000 cd. Two additional headlights with an index of 25 then use up the permissible maximum. Older headlights that do not have an identifier are assumed to have a value of 10. The use of the high beam is also regulated. The headlights must not dazzle oncoming traffic or traffic ahead. This regulation includes pedestrians. If there is continuous street lighting, the high beam must not be used. Conditions are also attached to the headlight flash (a brief flash of the headlights). It can be used outside of town to announce an overtaking maneuver and to warn of danger. Technology of a high beam The high beam is generated by a lamp whose light is reflected by a reflector so that it emerges in the direction of the reflector axis. The area of ??the reflector is the main factor determining the light intensity. Parabolic reflectors are supplemented by systems that enable harmonious light distribution through complex geometries and simultaneous switching of low beam and high beam. When the high beam is switched on, a blue indicator light informs the driver and the high beam must go out simultaneously on all headlights as soon as the headlights are dimmed. Delayed switching off (dimming) within 5 seconds is permitted. However, the delay is usually much shorter (also with regard to the headlight flasher)."
Electrics	to shine	Fog/additional lights	Cornering lights	"The extensive kfzteile24 range of additional lights for cars also includes cornering headlights, which are often referred to as adaptive cornering lights to emphasise the swivelling properties of the headlights. In English, cornering light systems are also referred to as AFS (adaptive front-lighting system) or AFL (adaptive forward lighting). The underlying idea of ??cornering lights was first taken up in 1918 and is therefore over 100 years old. However, the systems have only been able to establish themselves since 2002 and primarily in the luxury class, after the legal basis was created by a corresponding ECE regulation. Many manufacturers, including Audi, BMW, Mercedes-Benz, Opel, Renault and VW, now offer the technology, usually in combination with xenon light. But LED technology is now also used in cornering headlights. Cornering headlights for a Mercedes-Benz M-Class adaptive cornering light in action Image: Daniel K ppen - CC BY-SA 3.0 Function of cornering headlights Cornering headlights have the task of illuminating the area in front of the car when cornering better than the fixed dipped beam would be able to. The cornering headlights are swiveled by 10-15 degrees in the corresponding direction. The light cone generated follows the course of the road and can thus illuminate the curve. This allows the driver to see the route better, perceive dangers early and react promptly. The cornering light is usually controlled by a control unit that calculates sensor data such as speed, steering angle, yaw rate or acceleration forces and aligns the cornering headlights via actuators. Of course, the legal requirements must be complied with. For example, the cornering light must not swivel to the left when the vehicle is stationary in order to avoid dazzling oncoming traffic. Adaptive cornering headlights are particularly suitable for speeds over 50 km/h, while static cornering lights are used when driving slowly."
Electrics	to shine	Fog/additional lights	Fog lights	"At kfzteile24 you can buy fog lights cheaply, in addition to many other spare and wear parts. These are headlights mounted low on the front of the vehicle, which can also shine a yellowish light towards the front. This special feature helps to avoid blinding yourself, because fog lights may only be used when visibility is significantly impaired by rain, snow and, of course, fog. Significant visual impairment can generally be assumed as soon as visibility falls below 50 meters. This corresponds to the distance between two consecutive guide posts and also means that the maximum permitted speed is only 50 km/h. Anyone who does not comply with this and uses the fog lights even when the weather is clearing up is committing an administrative offence that will result in a fine. Fog lights for the Renault Twingo from Hella The shape of the fog lights depends on the vehicle. Function of fog lights In combination with the dipped beam, the fog lights provide a wider illumination of the close area in front of the car and reduce glare due to their yellow component. Depending on the vehicle, they are also used as static cornering lights to illuminate the nearby area of ??interest when turning. They are controlled either by the steering angle or the indicator switch. Fog lights may be used in Germany for the two purposes mentioned and may not be used instead of daytime running lights or dipped beam. The regulations for fog lights in Austria, on the other hand, are much more relaxed."
Electrics	to shine	Fog/additional lights	Fog lights (fog light parts)	"Fog lights can be used when visibility is severely restricted by environmental influences such as rain, snow, sleet and of course fog. They help to better illuminate the area in front of the vehicle and in this way actively contribute to safety in poor visibility. In addition to the headlights themselves, some individual parts are also required for assembly, such as frames or caps. We also offer covers that can be used to cover recesses when removing fog lights. Fog light cover VW Golf 3 Buy covers, frames and caps for fog lights at kfzteile24 Since we have fog lights in our range, it is only logical to also offer individual parts for the fog lights. In our range you will therefore find covers, caps and frames from the brand manufacturers Hella or Valeo as well as particularly inexpensive alternatives under the price hammer label. Quality is the top priority for kfzteile24. We therefore check our goods regularly. Thanks to a large central warehouse and optimized logistics, we can usually pack and ship ordered goods within 24 hours. Since we offer a full 365-day right of return, you do not take any risk when making a purchase. If you have any questions or need support, please contact our support team. Our friendly and competent staff will be happy to advise you."
Electrics	to shine	Fog/additional lights	Searchlight	"The legal regulations regarding car lighting are strict because, particularly in poor visibility, drivers must be able to rely on a uniform image in traffic in order to be able to interpret light signals correctly. Similar regulations apply to searchlights. They must be white and may only be activated together with the tail and license plate lights. They are intended for the brief illumination of signposts and road signs and may not be used as a replacement for normal main headlights to illuminate the road. Searchlights for a Porsche Requirements for searchlights The power of a searchlight on a car may not exceed 35 watts, but type approval is not required. Due to the prescribed short usage time, the law does not specify any dimensions for installation, such as installation height. Like most lights that shine forward on a car, searchlights must also be white. They are operated using a separate switch."
Electrics	to shine	Headlights		"Headlights are an important part of vehicle lighting and essential for safe traffic. They are permanently installed in the front of the vehicle and emit light in the direction of travel to illuminate the route. Headlights enable the driver to see danger spots and obstacles even in the dark. Conversely, they make it possible to drive quickly at night and in poor visibility conditions. In addition to their own safety, headlights also have a signaling effect for other road users, who are informed of the presence of the car. The basic type of vehicle can also be recognized from a distance in the dark thanks to the headlights. For example, two white headlights mounted next to each other at the same height indicate a multi-lane vehicle, while a single headlight is recognized as a bicycle, scooter or motorcycle. Main headlights of a VW Golf IV by Hella Main headlights of a VW Golf II Main headlights as a unit of dipped, high and parking lights The headlights of a car must comply with the rules listed in the Road Traffic Licensing Regulations (StVZO), but can differ significantly in terms of shape and technology. As a rule, parking lights, dipped beam and high beam are combined as a single structural unit, but systems with integrated direction indicators are also available on the market. Adaptive cornering lights and adaptive high beam can also be implemented using the main headlights, but they require appropriate sensors and control units. Since the headlights, together with the radiator grille, play a key role in determining the front section of a car, their design is not just based on functionality. They should also be nice to look at and convey values ??such as aesthetics, dynamism, power or joie de vivre. Because they are used in pairs in cars, they are also referred to as the eyes of a car and can significantly shape the perception of the vehicle. For this reason, there are designer headlights that can be used to optimize this effect. Of course, you can also buy suitable designer headlights cheaply online at kfzteile24. The light source of a headlight Headlights have been around since the beginning of automotive history, but the light sources have changed significantly. Initially, simple lanterns were used, later carbide lamps and then electric light bulbs. The latter are still available today, even though halogen and xenon gas discharge lamps or light-emitting diodes (LEDs) are entering the market. LEDs, for example, have a particularly high level of efficiency and long lifespan. Even laser light via laser diodes is available for certain luxury vehicles. A blue laser beam stimulates a phosphor layer, resulting in daylight-white light. White is also the only color permitted for headlights.The light from xenon lamps is colder and therefore bluish compared to incandescent lamps and is considered white. Only the fog lights are allowed to shine yellow."
Electrics	Headlights			"In order to be approved for use on German roads, every car must have two white headlights facing forwards for high and low beam according to the StVZO. The legislator sets out numerous technical requirements, but leaves implementation to the car manufacturers and the relevant suppliers. High and low beam are usually combined in one main headlight or front headlight and designed in such a way that the characteristics of the car are accentuated. Sporty, dynamic cars in particular therefore usually have long and narrow main headlights that give the car a grim, determined look. The headlights of small cars and city cars, on the other hand, are more round and evoke friendly, warm associations. Main headlights of a Golf 4 by Hella Function of the main headlights Of course, the headlights not only fulfill an aesthetic function and are a plaything for designers, but they are particularly relevant for safety. And not just for your own safety, but also for that of all other road users. The headlights illuminate the area in front of the vehicle and must not dazzle oncoming traffic or cars driving ahead. New technologies enable adaptive cornering lights and adaptive high beam, enabling the driver to perceive dangers or obstacles even earlier. But it is not just the headlights themselves that are constantly being optimized; lighting technology is also constantly evolving. In addition to standard light bulbs, which will continue to be popular in the future due to their low price, there are also halogen lamps, xenon gas discharge lamps and LEDs on the market. Even laser diodes, which provide light as bright as day, are now available. Changing the main headlights Main headlights must always be changed if the headlight has been damaged in an accident or the reflector has become dulled due to corrosion. Road salt or stone chips can also scratch the cover lens, which results in light refraction that increases glare. The plug connections of a headlight should also be checked regularly, because resistance caused by corrosion leads to a drop in voltage and therefore less light output."
Electrics	Main headlights/design headlights			"Headlights shape the exterior of a car like no other component and the desire to individualize the car with special designer headlights is not only present among tuning fans. Designer headlights are an excellent way to accentuate the front section. The form naturally follows the function, because even designer headlights must meet all the legal requirements of normal headlights. Designer headlights for a VW Golf 4 from Hella A designer headlight is not only stylish, but offers all the functionality of a normal headlight. Designer headlights for tuning fans However, designer headlights only really come into their own as part of a comprehensive style tuning. The often black or chrome-plated lights go perfectly with other optical modifications and express the sporty or elegant aspirations of the vehicle owner. Since they naturally do not only achieve their optical effect when the lights are switched on, you should evaluate the headlights both during the day and at night. Since kfzteile24 offers a full 365-day right of return, you have plenty of opportunity to do so. Designer headlights for even more expression As a specialist in the trade in spare and wear parts as well as car accessories, kfzteile24 also offers numerous chic, unusual and high-quality designer headlights. The components promise individuality and are the ideal addition to further optical tuning measures. Designer headlights also have a striking effect as a stand-alone highlight. The design is always subordinate to functionality, so that the headlights not only look good, but also promise a high light output without dazzling or distracting other road users. kfzteile24 usually ships designer headlights that are in stock within 24 hours. This is possible thanks to computer-aided logistics and optimized processes. If you have any questions about designer headlights or spare parts in general, our support team will be happy to help you. The employees are friendly and receive regular professional training."
Electrics	Headlight parts			"Headlights are important components of a car that affect safety and make fast driving in the dark possible. They are generally low-maintenance and long-lasting, but road salt and stone chips can scratch the headlight lens or light cover, for example. The outgoing light is scattered more in this case and can lead to greater blinding of the driver. Another type of damage occurs when the reflector corrodes and becomes dull due to water penetrating it. Over time, this process noticeably reduces the light output. Lamp sockets can also be damaged when changing the bulbs, and it is not always necessary to replace the entire headlight. Diffuser for the main headlight a lamp socket for the headlight Large selection of headlight parts At kfzteile24 you will find reflectors, covers, housings, caps, frames, seals or holders for the main headlights. Depending on the model, these can be replaced with manual skill. However, not every headlight can be easily disassembled, so replacing the entire unit is sometimes the only alternative. Since the light must be correctly adjusted again after any work on the headlights, headlights should generally only be worked on in a specialist workshop."
Electrics	Headlight bulb			"Even the best headlights don't work without light sources. In addition to halogen lamps, xenon gas discharge lamps and light-emitting diodes, classic light bulbs are still used. Although they are less efficient and most of the energy supplied is converted into heat rather than light, they are easy to manufacture and are therefore particularly cheap to buy. This economic reality ensures that light bulbs will probably continue to play an important role in vehicle lighting in the foreseeable future. Due to their often distinctive pear-shaped design, light bulbs or filament lamps are also colloquially known as incandescent bulbs. Light bulb for a VW Golf 3 The light of a light bulb can be changed using filters. How a light bulb works In a light bulb, a conductor, usually metal, is made to glow using an electric current. The material of the so-called filament or filament is chosen so that it does not begin to melt. Tungsten with a melting point of over 3400  C is particularly suitable. According to Planck's radiation law, the filament emits electromagnetic radiation when it glows, which is mainly in the infrared range and is perceived as heat. Only around 2.2% of the electrical energy supplied is emitted as light and is relevant for use in the headlights. Despite their inefficiency and limited lifespan, incandescent lamps also offer advantages because they are easy and inexpensive to manufacture and can usually be replaced without much effort."
Electrics	Headlight range adjustment			"Headlight range adjustment is required by law to give the driver of a car the option of adjusting the beam of the main headlights when the vehicle is tilted so that the road is illuminated and oncoming traffic is not unnecessarily dazzled. This adjustment may be necessary, for example, if a heavy load in the trunk changes the pitch angle of the car. Trailers or a heavily occupied back seat also influence the longitudinal alignment of the car. Finally, the road itself may have dips and hills and therefore make continuous adjustment of the headlight beam necessary. Adjustment element for the headlight range adjustment of an Opel Corsa Sensor for the headlight range adjustment of a xenon headlight from BMW Trend towards automatic, dynamic headlight range adjustment Headlight range adjustment was initially mostly carried out manually directly on the headlights, which often offered two separate levels. Later it was possible to continuously adjust the beam of light while driving. However, this option was often ignored by drivers, so automatic systems were brought onto the market. They are even required by law for light sources of over 2000 lumens (xenon light). They regulate the angle of inclination of the headlight beam without the driver having to actively intervene. Sensor data from the front and rear axles in conjunction with the speed are processed by a control unit that controls the headlights via servomotors. Dynamic systems that can react to road bumps, among other things, require complex calculation algorithms and particularly powerful servomotors. You should therefore pay attention to brand quality when buying. Parts for headlight range adjustment At kfzteile24 you can get the sensors, controllers and actuators required for headlight range adjustment from renowned brand manufacturers such as Valeo, Hella, febi bilstein or Bosch. As a specialist in the trade in spare and wear parts, we focus on quality and, thanks to optimized logistics, are also able to ship ordered goods usually within 24 hours of purchase. So that you can shop safely and conveniently and without any risk, kfzteile24 also grants a full 365-day right of return. Do you have any questions about headlight range adjustment? Our support team will be happy to advise you."
Electrics	Xenon light			"Xenon light is a relatively new technology that was first developed by Philips in 1989 and later taken up by Osram and Bosch. The lamps emit a much brighter light than halogen lamps and at the same time use less energy. The long service life is also a plus for xenon lamps and the light is closer to the color of daylight than incandescent light due to its bluish color. Xenon light is now standard in the upper class, but some disadvantages make widespread use seem unlikely. Xenon lamps themselves are significantly more expensive than other light sources and the system required to operate them is also highly complex. A look at how they work reveals the reason. Ballast for a xenon gas discharge lamp Ignition device for a xenon gas discharge lamp Structure and function of xenon lamps Xenon gas discharge lamps consist of two tungsten electrodes that are located in an extremely small combustion chamber - usually a glass bulb made of quartz glass. The glass bulb is filled with a mixture of xenon and metal halides (and sometimes mercury) under high pressure. When the lamp is switched on, a concentrated arc burns between the electrodes, causing the metal halides to evaporate. To start the process, a high-voltage pulse, similar to that of a spark plug, is required. Accordingly, the component responsible is also called an ignition device. The high voltage ionizes the initially non-conductive gas mixture and a conductive tunnel is created between the lamp's electrodes. Targeted overload increases the temperature and pressure in the glass bulb and the color of the light changes. The resistance between the electrodes also continues to decrease. The control device in the form of an electronic ballast registers the decreasing resistance and switches to continuous operation (the electrical power supplied is throttled). This process stabilizes the arc. The light output has reached its target value and the lamp does not flicker."
Electrics	Module	Coming Home		"A coming/leaving home module, sometimes just called a coming home module, hides a relatively simple but practical driving light assistant that switches on the headlights or parking lights to light your way to and from your car in the dark. This ambient lighting allows you to see obstacles such as puddles, hedges or stones as well as flowerbeds or dog poop. Coming/leaving home module from kfzteile24 Function of a coming home module The coming home module is usually connected between the desired lights and linked to the central locking system. This way you can, for example, leave the house in the morning and unlock the car using the radio key. The module now measures the brightness of the environment and will activate the connected lights (e.g. the main headlights) when it is dark. The light source helps you find your car safely and avoid obstacles and dirt. The principle works in the same way when you arrive home (coming home). The car is parked and locked. If the Coming Home module measures sufficient darkness, the connected lights will remain active for a set period of time to illuminate the way home. Depending on the model, a Coming/Leaving Home module can also perform driving light assistance functions and, for example, automatically activate the low beam, tail light and instrument lighting when it gets dark - e.g. when driving through tunnels. When it gets light again, the lights are deactivated. A Coming/Leaving Home module can usually be retrofitted and is particularly suitable for drivers who often park their car in unlit areas and drive in the dark. However, the small devices are also generally very helpful in detecting dangers in good time, particularly in winter when there is a risk of slipping and slush. The Coming/Leaving Home module is inexpensive depending on its range of functions, but it should be installed professionally. We therefore recommend that you have the integration carried out by a knowledgeable workshop. At kfzteile24, purchased Coming/Leaving Home modules are usually shipped within 24 hours and you take no risk with your purchase because we offer a full 365-day right of return. If you have any questions about the Coming/Leaving Home module or other concerns, our friendly and competent support team will be happy to help you. Try us out!"
Electrics	relay			"A relay is a remote-controlled switch operated by electric current, which can be used to activate a wide variety of load circuits in a car. They are regulated by a control circuit that generates an electromagnetic field in an excitation coil. The magnetic effect closes the working contacts of the load circuit (normally open contact) or, depending on the design, opens them (normally closed contact or normally closed contact). Relays are now increasingly being replaced by electronic switches that work using semiconductor transistors, but they do not only have disadvantages. For example, the low contact resistance and the low capacitance of the switching path speak in favor of using relays. They generally do not require cooling and have a high insulation resistance. Relay for the wipe-wash interval of the windscreen washer system Flasher unit from Hella Examples of relay use The function of a relay can be illustrated most easily using a flasher unit or interval switch for the windscreen washer system. As soon as the direction switch is operated, the flasher unit is supplied with power and the pulse generator of the flasher relay starts working. It supplies power to the control circuit and thus affects the circuit breaker, which ultimately activates the indicator. Relays are also used for window lifters, alarm systems, air conditioning systems or the fuel pump, the cooling fan after-run and the rear window heating."
Electrics	Rear/side reflectors			"Reflectors are retroreflectors, often just referred to as reflectors, which reflect incoming light. For example, the main headlights of a vehicle shine onto the reflectors of a car in front. These reflect part of the light back to the approaching driver, who can see the vehicle. To avoid glare, a certain amount of light scattering by the reflector is necessary. Reflectors are often integrated into the tail lights. But they are also available individually. Reflector for a Fiat Punto Structure of retroreflective reflectors The principle of reflection is not only used on vehicles and bicycles for safety reasons. Delineator posts, traffic signs and increasingly clothing or school bags are also equipped with reflectors or reflective film. The reflectors available for vehicles usually consist of three-sided angle reflectors or totally reflecting prisms. Due to their arrangement, these three-sided pyramids are theoretically able to reflect the light back to the source without any scattering effect, but then the driver would not be able to see it. A certain degree of light scattering is therefore intentional and requires a high level of precision in production. Reflectors are usually colored to reflect only light of a certain color - red for cars and yellow for side reflectors, e.g. on bicycles. The material used is primarily transparent plastic (plexiglass)."
Electrics	Switch (universal)			"Not all car accessories have to have a practical use. Some are just chic or stylish. The on and off switches in aircraft or racing design are one of them. The parts called kill switches are fully functional and, if installed correctly, enable the immediate interruption of any contact. A safety flap prevents accidental activation and gives the switch a touch of adventure. If you have always wanted to feel like a fighter pilot in your own car, you should consider buying a kill switch. Kill switch with red cover from Foliatec Start button for starting the engine Start button for starting the engine A so-called engine starter completes the cockpit conversion and enables the engine to be started at the push of a button. The push button in the original racing design can be integrated into any dashboard and is a functional highlight, especially in high-performance tuned vehicles. The start button can be protected by a lockable flap that springs to the side at the push of a button."
Electrics	Switches/Relays/Control units			"The electrics of a car are a complex system of sensors, control units, switches, relays, lots of cables and of course controlled components such as brakes or lighting. Due to the large number of parts, it is inevitable that electrical components will have to be replaced from time to time. Relays, for example, are much more sensitive to shock than transistors, and switches or control units can also break. At kfzteile24 we offer you a large selection of controllers and switches for every conceivable application. In our online shop you will find brake light switches, switches for the reversing light, steering column or hazard warning switches, among others. Door contact switches and switches for the fog or main light can also be bought cheaply online at kfzteile24. So-called circuit diagrams reveal where the elements are installed and linked to one another. Switches are of course also understood to be control elements for the dashboard, which not only have to work, but should also look good. Robust materials and a good feel also play an important role. Brake light switch from Hella Hazard warning switch for a VW Golf 4 High quality thanks to premium manufacturers As a specialist in the trade in spare and wear parts as well as car accessories of all kinds, we focus on quality and source most of our parts from renowned brand manufacturers such as Bosch, febi bilstein, Hella or Blue Print. But the particularly affordable alternatives in the bargain category also meet all requirements. These goods, which are optimized in terms of price-performance ratio through our purchasing, are regularly checked by our own quality management. This means that you always receive flawless switches, regulators, control units and relays. You also buy completely risk-free, because kfzteile24 grants a full 365-day right of return. This means that you can take a close look at the parts you have purchased. Thanks to optimized logistics, we are also able to ship purchased components within 24 hours. The rapid shipping is appreciated by private individuals as well as by workshops and breakdown services. Service is also an important cornerstone for satisfied customers. That's why kfzteile24 regularly trains its support staff so that we can always provide you with friendly and competent support. Try us out!"
Electrics	Sensors			"Without sensors, comfortable, economical and safe driving as we know it today would be unthinkable, because the small electronic components measure and monitor all relevant data of a vehicle, from exhaust gases to oil pressure. These are transmitted to the designated control units and interpreted there. The control unit reacts to the data and regulates the components involved in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications. For example, a coolant sensor called a thermostat can measure the temperature of the coolant, which can switch on an additional cooling fan if necessary before the water starts to boil. On the other hand, the path to the cooler is usually initially closed during a cold start so that the engine reaches its operating temperature as quickly as possible. Speed ??sensor for a Renault Clio Coolant temperature sensor from febi bilstein Communication via CAN bus The multitude of modern assistance and comfort systems with their control units and countless sensors can only be implemented if data transmission is guaranteed. To avoid this ending in a tangle of cables, the individual components usually communicate via a central bus system, i.e. via the same cables. This reduces the weight and at the same time the space required by the electronics. The Controller Area Network Bus (CAN Bus) is such a standardized field bus in the automotive sector and was developed in 1983 by Bosch in collaboration with Intel. It is divided into a high-speed bus and a low-speed bus, which can be thought of as data highways. While the safety-relevant sensor data and control commands are transmitted on the high-speed bus, the low-speed bus is intended for commands and data that are not so time-critical. A lambda sensor for exhaust gas regulation or an ABS sensor therefore has priority over a sensor for the washer fluid level or the interior temperature. Numerous sensors for every purpose As a specialist for spare parts and car accessories, kfzteile24 offers over 5,000 sensors for different areas and models from brand manufacturers such as Bosch, febi bilstein, Hella or Blue Print in its online shop. For example, you will find a speed sensor as well as an oil pressure sensor. Parking sensors and outside temperature measurements also only work with sensors. Steering angle sensors and speed sensors can provide data for very different areas - cornering lights are just one example of an application. Air pressure sensors in the tires allow convenient control of tire pressure and speed sensors are important for engine management. The application examples for sensors seem almost endless. To avoid losing track, simply select your car and you will usually only see sensors that match your vehicle. If you are unsure,We are of course happy to advise you before you buy. Our competent and friendly support staff are available Monday to Friday (6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.) and Saturday (9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.). If you have bought a sensor that doesn't fit, you can simply return it within 365 days. It couldn't be easier. We have optimized our logistics so that workshops and breakdown services, which usually carry out time-critical repairs, can also buy our inexpensive parts. kfzteile24 is usually able to ship ordered sensors within 24 hours. Try it out.
"
Electrics	Fuses			"Electrical fuses in cars are overcurrent protection devices, sometimes also referred to as OCP (Over Current Protection). Their job is to interrupt the electrical circuit as soon as the current is greater than specified over a predetermined period of time. In this way, they protect both cables and electronic systems from the consequences of excessive heating. In the worst case, too high a current in a cable with too small a cross-section can also lead to a cable fire. The overcurrent can occur due to an overload, for example if all consumers have to be supplied with energy from the generator in winter or if a short circuit occurs and the positive and negative poles are connected with almost no resistance. A fuse set contains fuses with different nominal current strengths. a 10 amp fuse Fuses in vehicles The car fuses used in vehicles are usually fusible fuses that consist of two electrical contacts that are connected to one another by a fusible conductor. Depending on the nature of the material, the fusible conductor melts as soon as the current becomes too high over a sufficiently long period of time. A rapidly increasing current, such as in a short circuit, also causes the material to melt. The circuit is interrupted and the electrical consumers are protected. Due to their design, fuses can no longer be used once they have been triggered. They must always be replaced with new fuses. Fuses are available for different currents from 1 to 100 amps, as well as in fuse sets or fuse sets with different standard values. The fuse must have at least a nominal current that corresponds to the operating current of the consumers connected to the fuse. However, the nominal current must not be too high, otherwise it will no longer function."
Electrics	Signal generator/light warning			"A light warning device is a useful tool that usually gives the driver an acoustic warning when the vehicle is parked if the lights are still on. The light warning device indicates this by humming or beeping, giving the driver the opportunity to react early. In this way, the light warning device protects against a deep discharge of the battery, which not only means that the car cannot be started the next morning, but also reduces the lifespan and capacity of the battery."
Electrics	Starter generator			"The starter generator combines the starting and generator operation in a single electrical machine. It combines the starter and the alternator in one component. This means that it can start your engine and also generate electricity while you are driving. Starter generators are often found in hybrid vehicles. They are therefore very important for the future of e-mobility. The starter generator can also feed electrical energy directly into the system during braking. This function is called recuperation. Sometimes there are situations when driving where you need more power - e.g. when overtaking and accelerating. The generator can then release the stored energy again and support the combustion engine. Enduring helpers: The advantages of starter generators Electrification is progressing in leaps and bounds. This brings with it great innovations and improvements for driving. Compared to the machines used in the past, modern starter generators have many advantages: Starter generators offer higher generator power and better efficiency than the classic alternator. This means that the starter generator uses less energy to feed the battery. This in turn saves a lot of fuel. Starter generators are ideal for automatic start-stop systems and are much less prone to repairs and maintenance than conventional starters. With a boost function, the starter generator supports the combustion engine when starting or accelerating. This gives you a few extra horsepower (or kW) at your disposal. The engine runs smoother and quieter because vibrations in the drive train are dampened. Starting with a starter generator is hardly noticeable for you and your companions and is quicker (0.5s vs 0.8s). Starting emissions are reduced. With conventional starters, you often hear a pinion noise when the combustion engine starts. You don't hear this noise with the starter generator. In contrast to the classic starter, the starter generator is always directly connected to the crankshaft. This is why the start-stop system can also switch off the engine while driving. For example, you can roll up to a traffic light with the engine switched off. The same thing happens when sailing (the combustion engine is switched off when it is not needed for propulsion). As a result, a starter generator reduces both fuel consumption and wear. Exhaust aftertreatment works more efficiently by switching off the combustion engine when sailing. This means that the catalyst and other components are not ?cold-blown? by cool idle exhaust gases. What types of starter generators are there? Belt starter generators (RSG): These starter generators are connected to the belt of the combustion engine like a conventional alternator. Their performance is therefore limited.which is why they do not offer all of the advantages mentioned above. The starter generators supplied by the belt drive are therefore only suitable for micro and mild hybrids. Nevertheless, they can reduce fuel consumption by 10-20%. Integrated starter generators (ISG): If you drive a more powerful hybrid, it is most likely that an integrated starter generator is installed. The ISG sits coaxially on the crankshaft between the combustion engine and the transmission. These generators can recover higher power and transfer it to the system. Fully electric driving is therefore also possible with the appropriate battery. Sustainable vehicle electrics for your car Car manufacturers are obliged and strive to reduce CO2 levels and thus the consumption of vehicles. This is possible thanks to the advantages of starter generators with a start-stop function. With powerful electric machines, the actual combustion engine can now be made smaller or even completely replaced. The strong and direct electrical drive energy can support and balance combustion engines with smaller displacement. This is not only more sustainable, but also more economical. If you are thinking about retrofitting a starter generator or are looking for other car electronics, our online shop is your perfect shopping option. After entering your vehicle details, you can only display suitable car and spare parts. These include, for example:After entering your vehicle details, you can only see suitable cars and spare parts. These include, for example:After entering your vehicle details, you can only see suitable cars and spare parts. These include, for example:"
Electrics	Control units			"A modern car uses a lot of electronics that must be controlled or regulated by suitable control units. The devices, also known as ECU or ECM (electronic control unit / electronic control module), work according to the EVA principle, so that there is always an input, processing and output of data. The input is usually made by sensors, but outputs from other control units can also be considered as inputs. The processing takes place according to the programming and thus the manufacturer's specifications and the output can be control signals to actuators that regulate the physical process so that the measured actual values ??are within the target range. Storing error messages in the error memory can also be seen as an output and helps the workshop to solve problems that arise. Heating control unit from febi bilstein Importance of control units Control units have a direct influence on the performance and comfort of a car and regulate, among other things, the fuel injection, ignition, automatic climate control, braking and driving dynamics assistants or the central locking system. They are usually networked with each other and communicate via an internal data bus such as CAN (Controller Area Network). In order to enable assignment in the event of failures due to the large number of installed electronic systems, the devices carry out regular self-diagnostics and also check the plausibility of the sensor data. They often have emergency programs that determine the output if no reliable or plausible sensor data is available. Depending on the control unit, the output may also consist of making the vehicle inoperable in order to prevent possible damage. In these cases, the error must first be found and the problem resolved before the vehicle is ready for use again. Control unit for the heating or ventilation of a VW Golf 4 Updating control units The software of control units, like any other software, is never completely error-free despite the corresponding effort and often offers opportunities for optimization. To make this possible, control units now often work with rewritable flash memory. Updating the control unit software in the workshop is then possible without any problems. The flash memory also makes it possible to give a vehicle more power by means of chip tuning, but in this case care must be taken to ensure that performance does not come at the expense of durability. Tax aspects must also be taken into account."
Electromobility	Electromobility			"Electromobility - the future of the car? Electric motors offer great advantages over combustion engines. They work efficiently and require little maintenance, cause no local emissions and also impress with an extremely wide speed range. The usual gearbox and clutch can therefore be completely dispensed with. Modern electric cars only have two gears to optimize efficiency. Electric cars are also quiet and provide a lot of driving pleasure thanks to powerful acceleration. Typical wear parts such as the brakes last significantly longer thanks to recuperation and you always have a clear conscience. After all, an electric car doesn't emit any CO2, does it? Electromobility - battery structure and CO2 balance Of course, an electric car doesn't produce any CO2 when driving. Instead of the oxidation of hydrocarbons, the energy is ultimately released through the transport of electrons. These migrate from the negatively charged anode (a layer of graphite) to the positively charged cathode when driving. In lithium-ion batteries, this electrode consists of the eponymous lithium metal oxides. The lithium ions can move freely in the electrolyte solution and pass through the separator between the two electrodes, so that the battery (or more precisely the accumulator) can be charged and discharged. However, extracting the necessary lithium is not a trivial process and producing the storage device requires a lot of energy. Battery production is also mainly in Asia, where coal-fired power makes up a large part of the energy mix. The electric car therefore starts the comparison with a worse CO2 balance before the first kilometer has even been driven. In addition to this ""CO2 backpack"", there is the CO2 emissions from charging the car from the power grid. After all, fossil fuels are still used to generate electricity in Germany. And who wants to do without their car when the sun isn't shining? Nevertheless, various studies have shown that electric cars have a better CO2 balance after around 30,000 to 60,000 kilometers than comparable vehicles with conventional combustion engines. Since the proportion of coal and gas in electricity generation in Germany is declining, we can even expect the ratio to improve further in the future. Structure of an electric car The heart of an electric vehicle is the electric motor, which makes use of the principle of electromagnetic interaction. In the passenger car sector, synchronous motors operated with alternating current are mainly found, which are characterized by high torque, high power and high efficiency. The motor is usually coupled to the wheels via a reduction gear and drive shafts. The electric motors can also be housed directly in the rim and provide propulsion as so-called wheel hub motors. However, the motor then has to share the space with the prescribed brakes.Disadvantage: The large unsprung mass impairs driving dynamics and wheel hub motors are more exposed to the elements. The electric motor is powered by the battery, which is usually hidden in the underbody of the vehicle. It is controlled via the speed controller. The battery supplies direct current, so an additional inverter is necessary. A rectifier is also required for charging from the alternating current network. This could of course also be accommodated in the charging station, but is installed in the electric car itself for maximum compatibility. The linchpin of the discussion about the future viability of e-mobility is and remains the accumulator. As mentioned, it requires lithium, is heavy and degrades over time. The decreasing capacity further limits the already limited range of an electric car. In addition, most drivers know that a battery does not like sub-zero temperatures. The reason for this is the liquid electrolyte. But there is hope in sight, because solid-state batteries have been the focus of research for years. Not only are they more reliable, they are also smaller, safer and can be charged more quickly. The only catch: It is still up in the air when solid-state batteries will finally reach market maturity. Anyone interested in the topic should keep an eye on companies such as Samsung, Toyota or QuantumScape (with VW as a shareholder). Electromobility - transport transition and funding The electric car or e-mobility in general represents a crucial pillar on the way to a climate-friendly transport system that is sustainably based on renewable energies. The development of new energy storage systems is just one of many topics. The development of the infrastructure and incentives for the purchase of e-vehicles is another. The so-called ""environmental bonus"" promises up to 6,000 euros when purchasing an eligible electric car, and the purchase and installation of a wall box for private purposes is also subsidized by the state. In order not to go beyond the scope here, we have summarized all current programs and services as well as their requirements in a special guide on the subject of funding. Electromobility - a question of costs E-mobility has the stigma of being an elite project. Critics are right to point out the high costs of an electric car. A Tesla Model 3 costs from EUR 40,000 upwards. A VW ID.4 costs at least EUR 37,415. Added to this are the costs of the solar system and any energy storage - without your own electricity production, an electric car makes no sense. Of course, you also need your own home with a parking space and a wall box. ?No money, no honey? also applies to electromobility. But remember that the automobile revolution at the beginning of the 20th century was also reserved for a wealthy minority. Social interest,Commercial success and technological progress will also promote electromobility, so that in the foreseeable future significantly larger sections of the population will be able to switch to battery-powered vehicles. We want to make our contribution to the transformation and are one of the first German online shops to offer the necessary accessories that you need for an electric car, from charging stations to charging cables."
Electromobility	Charging cable			"Charging cable for electric cars A charging cable suitable for the electric car is usually included with the vehicle. But what do you do if it breaks? We offer reliable charging cables for electric cars and explain what you should look out for. We also look at different types of plugs, among other things. Structure of a charging cable Charging cables consist of fine-stranded, usually tinned copper conductors. Each wire is individually insulated and covered with a protective plastic cover. The fine wires make the charging cable flexible and bendable, so that it can be easily stowed in the trunk of the electric car. At the end of the charging cable you will find the respective plugs, which usually have a rubber or plastic strain relief. In order to keep the electrical resistance as low as possible, charging cables are usually relatively short. 5 meters is a typical value. With longer charging cables, the maximum permissible electrical power must be observed. Otherwise the cable could start to burn. For the same reason, charging cables should not be used in conjunction with extensions or cable drums, even if the plug is suitable. How do you recognize a broken electric car charging cable? Before connecting a charging cable to your electric car and the charging station, you should always take a look at the external condition. This is especially true for rental vehicles. Is the sheathing OK? Are there any kinks in the cable or are the plugs wobbly? If the visual inspection did not give cause for concern, the charging process can begin. If the fuse or residual current device still blows, there is a problem with the cable. We also recommend touching the charging cable even after a successful charging process. Is it unusually hot? Perhaps individual wires broke when driving over the cable, causing the charging cable to heat up more. You should also not try to repair wobbly plugs. Depending on the plug type, the locking mechanism may also be damaged, which makes it necessary to buy a new charging cable. What charging cables are available for electric cars? You can find ""Mode 2"" and ""Mode 3"" charging cables for electric cars. Mode 2 charging cables are often thinner and designed for connection to a typical Schuko socket. They allow the electric car to be charged slowly and usually have a control unit integrated into the cable. It is also called an ICCB or ""In Cable Control Box"" and communicates with the vehicle. Its job is to regulate the current so that the fuse does not blow and the cable does not get too hot. Mode 3 charging cables are usually five-wire and allow the electric car to be charged with higher charging currents. Communication takes place between the charging station or wall box and the electric car, so that an additional control box is not necessary. When buying a Mode 3 charging cable, the most important thing is to have the right plug.Which charging cable plug is suitable for the electric car? AC single-phase - SchuKo plug - 2.3 kW A standard household SchuKo plug can of course be used to charge an electric car if no other option is available. However, the cable cross-section is usually only 1.5 mm  copper - aluminum conducts even worse - so the fuse is a maximum of 16 A. The mains voltage of 230 V results in a theoretical maximum charging power of 3.7 kW. However, since the plug and cable are not designed for a constant load and heat up, you can only expect a charging power of around 2.3 kW with the SchuKo plug. The cable should be as short as possible and cable reels as extensions should be avoided. AC single-phase - CEE plug (blue, ""camping plug"") - 3.7 kW The so-called camping plug also works single-phase with 230 V mains voltage and 16 A fuse. In contrast to the SchuKo plug, the cable is able to deliver this power consistently due to the thicker cable cross-section. Connection options are of course mainly found at campsites. However, a maximum charging power of 3.7 kW is also only an emergency solution. AC single-phase - Type 1 plug (SAE J1772-2009) - 7.4 kW Originally designed for use in the North American single-phase network, the Type 1 plug is also often used in electric cars from Asia. 240 V and 32 A result in a maximum charging power of around 7.4 kW per hour. If the electric car has a connection for the Type 1 plug, when purchasing the charging cable you should make sure that the other side has the Type 2 plug that is common in Europe. AC three-phase - CEE plug (red, ""high-voltage connection"") - 22 kW Red ""high-voltage sockets"" are often found in house connection rooms, basements or garages. Depending on the protection of the three phases, they can handle between 11 kW and 22 kW of electrical power. With the right plug and the corresponding Mode 2 charging cable, the ""red socket"" can also be used to charge the electric car. AC three-phase - Type 2 plug (Mennekes plug) - 43 kW The Type 2 plug has established itself as a charging plug for electric cars in the EU and can be operated in both single-phase and three-phase modes. It is supported by almost all providers and can be found in electric cars from Tesla, Audi, BMW, Mercedes-Benz, VW, Volvo and Renault, among others. If you look closely at the plug, you can see 5 larger pins (3 phases, neutral conductor and protective conductor) and two smaller pins that are used for communication between the electric car and the charging station. DC - Tesla Supercharger - 120 kW Externally indistinguishable from the Type 2 plug, the Tesla Supercharger is a modification for Tesla vehicles only. A maximum of 120 kW of electrical power can flow via direct current through the charging cable, so that the battery is full in less than an hour.DC - CSS plug (Combo 2) - 350 kW The abbreviation CSS stands for the charging standard for battery-electric vehicles, the ""Combined Charging System"". In Europe, the Type 2 plug is expanded to include 2 DC charging contacts. The plug thus enables theoretical charging capacities of up to 350 kW. DC - CHAdeMO - 150 kW The Japanese plug system, which competes with the CSS, offers a maximum charging capacity of up to 150 kW and is mainly found in electric cars from Citro n, Honda, Kia, Mazda, Nissan, Mitsubishi, Subaru and Toyota."
Electromobility	Charging station			"Wallbox - the charging station for electric cars and hybrids As a fan of electromobility, you cannot avoid a wallbox. Charging an electric car or hybrid via the usual 230 V connection at home is usually possible, but with a connected load of around 3.7 KW, the process takes forever. In addition, there is an increased risk of fire, especially in older houses. The reason for this is the aluminum cables that can still be found in old buildings. They are extremely unsuitable for continuous use and can come loose at the contact points when heated. Higher contact resistance ultimately leads to cable fires. A charging station for electric cars is therefore not only more convenient but also safer. How do wallboxes differ from one another? The growing awareness of electromobility and, not least, government funding have triggered a wallbox boom. There are now over 300 models in different price ranges on the market. The following tips will help you find the right model for your home. Power consumption of the charging station in standby mode Like most household appliances, a wallbox also consumes energy when not in use. The power is used for LEDs, displays or the unit's radio module, among other things, even when no electric car is being charged. There are still no legal regulations limiting this energy consumption. And it is not insignificant. An efficient wallbox can save up to 40 euros in electricity costs per year compared to other charging stations. If the wallbox can be controlled via an app, consumption usually increases. However, it is usually particularly convenient to use and the device can benefit from software updates. A simple on/off switch is generally an advantage so that the unit can be switched off when not in use. Anyone who thinks that this can also be done via the fuse should note that some charging stations do not like the sledgehammer method of disconnecting from the power supply and go through a boot process when switched back on, which can take several minutes. Charging power and intelligent control A typical wallbox for the home offers a charging power of 11 kWh via three-phase alternating current. However, there are also models with 22 kWh. In principle, the battery of the electric car will naturally be full more quickly with a higher charging power. However, it should be noted that the KfW subsidy only applies to wall boxes with 11 kWh. It gets complicated because the subsidy can also be applied for for more powerful devices if the electrician reduces the charging power to 11 kWh and certifies this. In any case, the wall box must have an intelligent control system. This enables the network operator to adjust the charging power as required and to shift it at different times. Peak loads in the network are avoided. When buying a charging station, you should therefore pay attention to the smart function and not buy an unregulated version.The eligibility of the wallbox is usually advertised directly by the provider anyway. Installing a wallbox at home An important note in advance: The installation of every charging station for electric cars should be in the hands of a specialist company. After all, it is about high voltage (400 V) with corresponding risks. The electrician will first take a close look at the house installation, i.e. the fuse box, and make a cost estimate based on the conditions. Depending on the space, major reconstruction work may also be necessary. The connection cable is quite rigid and cannot be bent at will due to its thickness. It may also be necessary to replace the residual current circuit breaker. Type A circuit breakers can ""go blind"" when a wallbox is operated. Even small DC fault currents lead to a pre-magnetization of the residual current circuit breaker, so that it may no longer trigger. A modern charging station for electric cars switches off even with DC fault currents of just 6 mA. The older type A residual current circuit breaker can then remain. If the wallbox does not offer the protective function, the circuit breaker in the house connection room must be replaced. Depending on the situation, a new main fuse may also be necessary if all consumers and the charging station exceed the power consumption of the house. This must be clarified with the network operator and of course paid for. Important: Every installation of a wallbox must be reported. If the output is more than 11 kWh, the charging station for the electric car even requires approval. Finally, you should not forget to inform your building insurance company about the installation of the wallbox - ideally in advance. The insurance premium will increase slightly in most cases, but it is much more important not to lose the insurance cover for the house or garage. Costs of a charging station for the home As already suggested, the costs for a wallbox cannot be determined exactly. They vary depending on the hardware selected, the costs for installation and the operating and follow-up costs. Charging stations are also sometimes sold as a package with additional supply contracts. The background to this is the requirement that the wallbox is only eligible for funding if it is operated with renewable energies. Since even the best PV system cannot provide green electricity at night, you should calculate the corresponding models individually or seek specific advice. The following costs should therefore only be understood as rough guidelines. Wallbox costs: EUR 600?1,200 Installation costs: EUR 800?1,500 Additional costs for home insurance and standby powerAfter all, we are talking about high voltage current (400 V) with the associated risks. The electrician will first take a close look at the house installation, i.e. the fuse box, and make a cost estimate based on the circumstances. Depending on the space, major reconstruction work may also be necessary. The connection cable is quite rigid and cannot be bent at will due to its thickness. It may also be necessary to replace the residual current circuit breaker. Type A circuit breakers can ""go blind"" when a wall box is used. Even small DC fault currents lead to a pre-magnetization of the residual current circuit breaker, so that it may no longer trip. A modern charging station for electric cars switches off even with DC fault currents of just 6 mA. The older type A residual current circuit breaker can then remain. If the wall box does not offer the protective function, the circuit breaker in the house connection room must be replaced. Depending on the situation, a new main fuse may also be necessary if all consumers and the charging station exceed the power consumption of the house. This must be clarified with the network operator and of course paid for. Important: Every installation of a wallbox must be reported. If the capacity is more than 11 kWh, the charging station for the electric car even requires approval. Finally, you should not forget your building insurance and inform them about the installation of the wallbox - ideally in advance. The insurance premium will increase somewhat in most cases, but it is much more important not to lose the insurance cover for the house or garage. Costs of a charging station for the home As already suggested, the costs for a wallbox cannot be determined exactly. They vary depending on the hardware selected, the costs for installation and the operating and follow-up costs. Charging stations are also sometimes sold in a package with additional supply contracts. The background to this is the requirement that the wallbox is only eligible for funding if it is operated with renewable energies. Since even the best PV system cannot provide green electricity at night, you should calculate the corresponding models individually or seek specific advice. The following costs should therefore only be understood as rough guidelines. Wallbox costs: EUR 600?1,200 Installation costs: EUR 800?1,500 Additional costs for home insurance and standby powerAfter all, we are talking about high voltage current (400 V) with the associated risks. The electrician will first take a close look at the house installation, i.e. the fuse box, and make a cost estimate based on the circumstances. Depending on the space, major reconstruction work may also be necessary. The connection cable is quite rigid and cannot be bent at will due to its thickness. It may also be necessary to replace the residual current circuit breaker. Type A circuit breakers can ""go blind"" when a wall box is used. Even small DC fault currents lead to a pre-magnetization of the residual current circuit breaker, so that it may no longer trip. A modern charging station for electric cars switches off even with DC fault currents of just 6 mA. The older type A residual current circuit breaker can then remain. If the wall box does not offer the protective function, the circuit breaker in the house connection room must be replaced. Depending on the situation, a new main fuse may also be necessary if all consumers and the charging station exceed the power consumption of the house. This must be clarified with the network operator and of course paid for. Important: Every installation of a wallbox must be reported. If the capacity is more than 11 kWh, the charging station for the electric car even requires approval. Finally, you should not forget your building insurance and inform them about the installation of the wallbox - ideally in advance. The insurance premium will increase somewhat in most cases, but it is much more important not to lose the insurance cover for the house or garage. Costs of a charging station for the home As already suggested, the costs for a wallbox cannot be determined exactly. They vary depending on the hardware selected, the costs for installation and the operating and follow-up costs. Charging stations are also sometimes sold in a package with additional supply contracts. The background to this is the requirement that the wallbox is only eligible for funding if it is operated with renewable energies. Since even the best PV system cannot provide green electricity at night, you should calculate the corresponding models individually or seek specific advice. The following costs should therefore only be understood as rough guidelines. Wallbox costs: EUR 600?1,200 Installation costs: EUR 800?1,500 Additional costs for home insurance and standby powerType A circuit breakers can ""go blind"" when a wallbox is in operation. Even small DC fault currents lead to a pre-magnetization of the residual current device, so that it may no longer trip. A modern charging station for electric cars switches off even with DC fault currents of just 6 mA. The older type A residual current device can then remain. If the wallbox does not offer the protective function, the circuit breaker in the house connection room must be replaced. Depending on the situation, a new main fuse is also necessary if all consumers and the charging station exceed the power consumption of the house. This must be clarified with the network operator and of course paid for. Important: Every installation of a wallbox must be reported. If the output is more than 11 kWh, the charging station for the electric car even requires approval. Finally, you should not forget your building insurance and inform them about the installation of the wallbox - ideally in advance. The insurance premium will increase slightly in most cases, but it is much more important not to lose the insurance cover for the house or garage. Costs of a charging station for home As already suggested, the costs for a wallbox cannot be determined exactly. They vary depending on the hardware selected, the costs for installation and the operating and follow-up costs. Charging stations are also sometimes sold as a package with additional supply contracts. The background to this is the requirement that the wallbox is only eligible for funding if it is operated with renewable energies. Since even the best PV system cannot provide green electricity at night, you should calculate the corresponding models individually or seek specific advice. The following costs should therefore only be understood as rough guidelines. Wallbox costs: EUR 600?1,200 Installation costs: EUR 800?1,500 Additional costs for home insurance and standby powerType A circuit breakers can ""go blind"" when a wallbox is in operation. Even small DC fault currents lead to a pre-magnetization of the residual current device, so that it may no longer trip. A modern charging station for electric cars switches off even with DC fault currents of just 6 mA. The older type A residual current device can then remain. If the wallbox does not offer the protective function, the circuit breaker in the house connection room must be replaced. Depending on the situation, a new main fuse is also necessary if all consumers and the charging station exceed the power consumption of the house. This must be clarified with the network operator and of course paid for. Important: Every installation of a wallbox must be reported. If the output is more than 11 kWh, the charging station for the electric car even requires approval. Finally, you should not forget your building insurance and inform them about the installation of the wallbox - ideally in advance. The insurance premium will increase slightly in most cases, but it is much more important not to lose the insurance cover for the house or garage. Costs of a charging station for home As already suggested, the costs for a wallbox cannot be determined exactly. They vary depending on the hardware selected, the costs for installation and the operating and follow-up costs. Charging stations are also sometimes sold as a package with additional supply contracts. The background to this is the requirement that the wallbox is only eligible for funding if it is operated with renewable energies. Since even the best PV system cannot provide green electricity at night, you should calculate the corresponding models individually or seek specific advice. The following costs should therefore only be understood as rough guidelines. Wallbox costs: EUR 600?1,200 Installation costs: EUR 800?1,500 Additional costs for home insurance and standby powerThe insurance premium will increase slightly in most cases, but it is much more important not to lose the insurance cover for the house or garage. Costs of a charging station for the home As already suggested, the costs for a wallbox cannot be determined exactly. They vary depending on the hardware selected, the costs for installation and the operating and follow-up costs. Charging stations are also sometimes sold as a package with additional supply contracts. The background to this is the requirement that the wallbox is only eligible for funding if it is operated with renewable energies. Since even the best PV system cannot provide green electricity at night, you should calculate the corresponding models individually or seek specific advice. The following costs should therefore only be understood as rough guidelines. Wallbox costs: EUR 600?1,200 Installation costs: EUR 800?1,500 Additional costs for home insurance and standby powerThe insurance premium will increase slightly in most cases, but it is much more important not to lose the insurance cover for the house or garage. Costs of a charging station for the home As already suggested, the costs for a wallbox cannot be determined exactly. They vary depending on the hardware selected, the costs for installation and the operating and follow-up costs. Charging stations are also sometimes sold as a package with additional supply contracts. The background to this is the requirement that the wallbox is only eligible for funding if it is operated with renewable energies. Since even the best PV system cannot provide green electricity at night, you should calculate the corresponding models individually or seek specific advice. The following costs should therefore only be understood as rough guidelines. Wallbox costs: EUR 600?1,200 Installation costs: EUR 800?1,500 Additional costs for home insurance and standby power"
filter	filter			"Filters are essential for the operation of cars and motorcycles because they protect the engine and its components as well as the passengers from contamination. The filters can be differentiated both according to their operating principle and according to the medium to be filtered. A quality feature of good filters is a high separation efficiency with as little back pressure as possible. A long service life before the filter is changed or cleaned is also desirable. A typical air filter Principles of operation of filters Sieve effect The filters called sieve and fiber filters separate the contaminants because the filter mesh is smaller than the unwanted dirt particles. Sieve filters are one of the most common types of filter and are inexpensive to manufacture. The sieve can be made of fiber or metal. Adhesive effect Wet air filters, which are still sometimes used on motorcycles, consist of a metal mesh that is moistened with oil. Contaminants in the air flowing through the filter stick to the oil film. However, the oil film must be renewed regularly, which makes these filters maintenance-intensive. Magnetic effect Filters that remove ferromagnetic contaminants from the medium flowing past are called magnetic filters. They work according to the principle of negative positive alternating turbulence-free magnetization and usually supplement screen filtration. Examples of applications are oil and hydraulic filters. Centrifugal force effect The medium to be cleaned in a centrifugal filter (often air) is set in rotation, which pushes the contaminants to the edge of the filter according to the centrifugal force. There they settle. Centrifugal filters are usually easy to clean and do not need to be replaced. However, they are complex to construct. Air filter The job of an air filter is to clean the intake air for the engine. The air contains tiny dirt particles (0.005 mm to 0.05 mm) which, without a filter, would form an abrasive mass with the engine oil. This would result in heavy wear on the cylinders, pistons and valve guides. Dry air filters are usually used, in which the air flows through replaceable filter elements. The durability depends on the amount of dirt in the air and the size of the paper surface. Since these screen filters become clogged over time and a so-called filter cake forms, which increases the flow resistance, they must be replaced regularly. Otherwise, there is a risk of performance losses because not enough air reaches the combustion chambers. Fuel filters In order to protect the fuel system, fuel filters separate impurities and possibly water from the fuel. Coarse fuel filters are used as pre-filters in the fuel tank. These are screen filters made of a wire and polyamide mesh that filter out impurities up to a size of usually 0.06 mm. Fuel line filters or.In-line filters ensure fine filtration. The pore size of these paper filters is usually between 0.002 mm and 0.001 mm. They are replaced as a whole during maintenance. Fuel filter elements, on the other hand, are housed in their own housing on the engine and are replaceable. Fine filtration is carried out by an insert made of paper or felt. So-called box filters or spin-on fuel filters also work according to the sieve principle and are replaced as a whole during maintenance. Oil filters Oil filters are comparable in structure and function to spin-on fuel filters. The filter inserts remove metal abrasion, soot and dust particles up to a size of ten micrometers from the engine oil and thus extend its service life. However, oil filters cannot prevent the engine oil from breaking down over time and eventually having to be replaced. After all, they cannot separate liquid contaminants and have no influence on chemical and physical changes that cause the oil to age. Oil filters are also replaced when the engine oil is changed. Hydraulic filters As the name suggests, hydraulic filters clean the hydraulic fluids in a car. These include, for example, brake fluid or ATF oils in automatic transmissions and power steering. These are usually plastic screen filters that are housed in expansion tanks or master cylinders to protect the thin high-pressure lines. Paper filters are also used in automatic transmissions. Interior filters Interior filters are used to keep the air in the interior of a car largely free of dirt particles such as dust, soot, tire and brake abrasion. These are typical screen filters that often consist of several layers. The pre-filter separates larger dirt particles, while the microfiber fleece behind it uses electrostatic charging to filter out even the smallest pollen and bacteria from the air. Another layer of activated carbon neutralizes dangerous gases such as ozone or smog, and even malodorous gases can be largely kept away by storing the corresponding molecules. Change filters regularly Only regular filter changes in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications guarantee that the filters can do their job properly. It is important to take time intervals or mileages into account, which are usually included in maintenance and inspection plans. Note that paper filters must be replaced, while foam filters can be washed out. Paper filters cannot be blown out because the structure is damaged and the filter performance is impaired. When changing oil and fuel filters, the removed filter must be disposed of in an environmentally friendly manner. Buy filters for every car at kfzteile24 In the kfzteile24 shop you will find high-quality and durable filters for every car, which you can buy cheaply online.We offer you air filters, oil filters, fuel filters, hydraulic filters and interior filters from well-known brand manufacturers such as MANN Filter, Hengst Filter, K&N Filter, Blue Print or febi bilstein. The filters are usually in stock and can usually be delivered within 24 hours thanks to our optimized logistics. So that you can buy safely and conveniently from home, we also offer a full 365-day right of return. If you have any questions about filters and of course all other spare parts in our shop, the kfzteile24 support team will be happy to help you."
filter	Hydraulic filter			"In the kfzteile24 online shop you will find hydraulic filters alongside many other car spare parts and car accessories. Like all other parts, hydraulic filters are usually shipped 24 hours after purchase. We are characterized by fast delivery times and high quality standards at reasonable prices. At kfzteile24 you can buy hydraulic filters from well-known brand manufacturers such as MANN Filter, Hengst Filter or febi bilstein easily and safely online. The unbeatably cheap hydraulic filters in the bargain category also meet all the requirements that you can expect from a high-quality filter. Hydraulic filter for a Mercedes Benz from MANN Filter Change hydraulic filters and oil regularly If the automatic transmission jerks or shifts gears slowly, fortunately an expensive transmission change is not always necessary. Often an oil change and replacing the hydraulic filter are enough. In cold weather and with old oil in particular, its viscosity changes. It becomes thicker and foaming and deposits of oil sludge can occur. You can have the transmission cleaned in a workshop. To do this, a cleaning additive is usually added to the oil circuit first. The system is then flushed and the old oil is replaced with new oil. A fresh hydraulic filter is a useful addition to the gearbox treatment. Since cleaning the gearbox is not cheap, unlike the hydraulic filter, you should make sure that there really is no mechanical defect in the gearbox. Function of the hydraulic filter Hydraulic filters are usually made of a special plastic that is highly durable. A professional filter effectively removes dirt particles from the oil, so that the gearbox mechanics are protected. Whether for small cars or robust SUVs: hydraulic filters are needed in every car. Depending on the design, the brands differ, for example, in their internal dimensions and weight. When installing, care should be taken to ensure that a seal is present so that no oil can leak out. This is the only way to guarantee sustainable use of the filters. When replacing car parts that contain oil, care must be taken to ensure that they are disposed of properly so that the harmful substances do not get into the soil and thus into the groundwater. Hydraulic filter for a Mercedes Benz from Hengst Filter"
filter	Cabin filter			"An interior filter in a car is designed to remove pollutants from the ambient air so that the occupants can breathe clean air in the car. The interior air filter takes care of soot and pollen, dirt particles and dust, sulphur dioxide and hydrocarbons, but also unpleasant odours. High levels of pollutants are regularly measured, particularly in large cities such as Hamburg, Stuttgart or Berlin. As part of the air conditioning system, interior filters should be checked regularly and replaced if necessary. Normally, the interior filter or pollen filter must be changed every year or every 15,000 km, as it becomes clogged with fine dust particles and the so-called filter cake forms between the folds. Allergy sufferers in particular should make sure that the filter is functioning properly, as it keeps the interior of a vehicle almost 100 percent pollen-free. Interior filter from Blue Print Particle filter Particle filters ensure the mechanical cleaning of the air according to the principle of sieve filtration, whereby dirt particles such as brake dust, pollen, tyre abrasion, soot or industrial dust get caught on a synthetic fleece. The filter medium is usually folded and electrostatically charged. Due to the multi-layer fiber structure, there is only a small risk of particles penetrating the fine mesh. The electrostatic charge can separate even the smallest particles under five micrometers. However, due to thorough cleaning, the filter becomes clogged over time and must be replaced. Interior filters from Hengst Filter Interior filters with activated carbon layer Combined filters are another variant of the interior filter. They combine the function of a particle filter with an activated carbon layer that removes odors and harmful gases from the air. These can be ozone or benzene, for example. The surface of the activated carbon layer acts like a sponge. Gas and odor molecules are deposited in the open pores and stored in the labyrinth-like channels. This effect is achieved by an extremely large surface in a small space. Commuters in particular, who are often stuck in traffic jams, appreciate the advantages of a combined filter. Even during stop-and-go phases, a functioning combination filter filters out all unpleasant odors. This prevents mucous membrane irritation and headaches, and the filter also contributes to driving safety. Of course, interior filters with an activated carbon layer also need to be changed regularly."
filter	Fuel filter			"The purpose of a fuel filter is easy to deduce from its name. It filters the fuel, i.e. it removes impurities and dirt particles, and depending on the design, water, from the fuel. Although fuel contamination is rare in Europe, carburettors and injection systems are sensitive due to the high pressures. Water can corrode the injection system, or dirt can clog the sometimes very small holes. Fuel filters are therefore a component of every engine. The following filter designs are available: replaceable fuel filter modules with housing, spin-on fuel filters, fuel line filters or inline filters. Features of good fuel filters The requirements placed on modern filter variants include, for example, an optimal fuel injection level and reliable resistance to aggressive filter media. In addition, criteria such as resistance to temperatures from -40 to 100 degrees Celsius and a continuous flow rate are relevant. Depending on the type of car, the fuel filters can be mounted on the underbody as standard and can be subjected to heavy mechanical stress in this position. Fuel filters should also contribute to safety in the event of an accident by preventing fuel leakage wherever possible. Fuel filter from Hengst Filter for a VW Golf 2 Fuel filter from MANN Filter for a Peugeot 206 Changing the fuel filter Like all filters, fuel filters are subject to natural wear and tear and must therefore be changed regularly. They are normally replaced every 60,000 km. Clogged filters often only manifest themselves in a very non-specific way, with the engine running unevenly and performance reduced. When changing the fuel filter, make sure that the old filter is disposed of properly."
filter	Air filter			"Air filters should be changed regularly because their main job is to filter the air needed for combustion. However, this sucked-in air contains dirt and dust particles that would act like sandpaper. In order to prevent the associated mechanical wear not only in the engine but also on the turbocharger or air mass meter and to protect these components accordingly, the use of high-quality air filters is essential. You can see how important this is when you imagine the volume of air that an engine sucks in per hour. Depending on the displacement and required power, the values ??fluctuate between 200 and 500 cubic meters. Air pollution depends on many factors: Weather conditions Time of year Road conditions Location and traffic Change air filters regularly A clogged air filter is usually manifested by poor engine performance and increased consumption. In extreme cases, it can even cause starting problems. We therefore recommend changing the filter every year or approximately every 20,000 kilometers. If the manufacturer specifies different intervals, it is best to stick to these specifications. Air filters can become clogged quickly, especially in traffic-heavy inner cities, but fortunately changing them is child's play and can be done without any automotive knowledge. We would like to demonstrate the procedure using a Skoda Octavia as an example. The position of the air filter box, the routing of the air hoses, as well as the design and size of the filter can of course differ from your vehicle. Loosen the clamp on an air filter hose with water pump pliersOpen the air filter box to change the air filterNew air filter for changing the air filter The first step is to find the air filter. To do this, simply follow the thick air hoses to the air filter box. The air mass meter is also located behind the air filter. Disconnect its connector to remove the air hose and take off the cover. If you have access to the air mass meter, check whether the heating element is dirty. It provides an important control variable for mixture formation. If the air mass meter has deposits due to a damaged air filter, you can try to clean it carefully when changing the filter. Of course, you can also get replacements from us at a reasonable price. The air filter itself is simply removed and replaced with a new air filter. Cleaning is not possible because the filter structure is damaged by knocking it out or blowing it out with compressed air. Also pay attention to the installation direction if the air filter specifies a flow direction. The air is always directed from the front towards the engine. After installation, the filter box is closed again and all hoses are put on airtight. Take the opportunity to check the air hoses for cracks,because drawing in unwanted air past the air filter and air mass meter not only increases wear, but also results in error messages from the engine management. If you want to save yourself the annual change of the air filter and want a little more power and a richer engine sound, you can use a sports air filter. These are available as replacement filters with significantly longer maintenance intervals."
filter	Oil filter			"Due to the wide variety of engine versions that are now installed in cars, oil filters have also been further developed. This is evident from the different designs that are available to buy from kfzteile24. First of all, filters integrated in a filter cartridge or exchange box are available. These are expanded by an environmentally friendly innovation in which only the filter seals and filter inserts are replaced. Under this condition, metal waste is reduced. In the latter solution, the filter housing is a fixed part of the engine. A distinction is also made between main and combined bypass and main flow oil filters. With main flow filters, the entire amount of oil passes through the filter area, while with combined main and bypass filters, around five to ten percent of the oil passes through the bypass filter. The bypass filter is equipped with finer filter media or, as a centrifuge, ensures constant fine filtration of the engine oil. Although not visible from the outside, engine oils often contain unfavorable components that can contribute to engine wear. These mainly include: Metal particles caused by abrasion Contaminants such as dust and soot Residues from the combustion process Change oil filters regularly Clogged oil filters usually increase oil consumption and also reduce engine performance. The most serious consequence, however, is greater wear and tear on the engine itself. If increased wear and tear is not recognized in time, the worst case scenario is total failure. Despite high-quality engine oils and sophisticated filter technology, oil filters are therefore a potential weak point that should be checked regularly. Therefore, change the oil filter regularly with every oil change. Speaking of oil changes - oil filters mechanically remove foreign substances from the oil using the sieve principle, but have no effect on chemical or physical processes within the oil, i.e. even the best oil filter cannot prevent the engine oil from aging and having to be replaced regularly."
filter	Sports air filter			"In the kfzteile24 online shop you will find, among other things, inexpensive sports air filters from premium manufacturers K&N and raid hp. As a Berlin-based online shop with over 15 years of experience in the trade of spare parts and car accessories, kfzteile24 has a wide range of car spare parts manufactured by well-known manufacturers. Despite low prices, kfzteile24 focuses on high quality and fast delivery. Over 90 percent of the spare parts available in the shop are in stock, so that shipping is usually possible within 24 hours. Since kfzteile24 offers a full 365-day right of return, you do not take any risk when buying. See for yourself and try us out! If you have any questions about sports air filters, our friendly and competent support team will be happy to help you. Sports air filters from K&N Sports air filters as a tuning measure Sports air filters are part of kfzteile24's extensive range and are used primarily in the tuning sector. In contrast to normal air filters, they promise more engine power and a richer engine sound. Basically, sports air filters can be divided into replacement air filters and open air filters, with replacement air filters usually made of cotton and simply used instead of regular paper filters. They are somewhat more durable, can be cleaned yourself and do not require a separate approval by the T V. Open sports air filters, on the other hand, are inserted directly into the intake tract and are usually significantly louder due to their conical design with higher air flow. Due to this property, the change to the vehicle must be approved by a T V inspector. The rich and full engine sound of a sports air filter is reflected, on the other hand, in slightly higher fuel consumption. More power through sports air filters Since open sports air filters increase the air supply to the engine's combustion chamber, the power should increase accordingly. However, it is important to note that this is only possible with larger and professional modifications because the air must be properly cooled in an ""airbox"" before entering the combustion chamber. This intervention also requires T V approval. Without sufficient cooling, however, the use of an open sports air filter can even lead to a loss of performance, because the intake of hot engine compartment air reduces the air volume and thus the oxygen saturation. Installing sports air filters correctly Open sports air filters or corresponding filter systems should be installed correctly by a car professional in order to avoid possible damage to the air mass meter and the engine. Due to their design, sports air filters not only let more air into the engine, but also, under certain circumstances, more dirt. Even if real performance improvements are only possible with sports air filters under very specific circumstances,They are enjoying increasing popularity due to subjective perception. The rich and sporty sound of the engine can be enjoyed for a long time."
filter	Sports air filter accessories			"Sports air filters are particularly popular in the tuning sector due to the rich engine sound. Although real performance improvements are only possible under very specific conditions, the powerful sound of a sports air filter can have a strong influence on subjective perception. In order to enjoy a sports air filter for a long time, it should be cared for accordingly and you can of course find useful accessories at kfzteile24. Among other things, we offer air filter oil that was specially developed for cotton filters and has a long service life. The oil's adhesive effect ensures that no dirt gets into the engine. Its reddish color also makes it clear which parts of the filter still need to be moistened. Air filter cleaner Air filter cleaning set from K&N Sports air filter oil and cleaner in a set at a particularly good price With an air filter cleaner, a dirty sports air filter from K&N can be cleaned without running the risk of damaging the material. Paint, chrome, aluminum, plastic or rubber remain intact, as does the guarantee. The cleaner is also biodegradable and, like the air filter oil, is available in containers of different sizes. You can also buy air filter oil and air filter cleaner as a set at a particularly low price. In any case, please follow the instructions for use for each product to protect the sports air filter and engine."
filter	Sports air filter accessories	Cleaning & Care		"Air filter cleaner - cleaning instead of changing A new sports air filter is a simple and relatively inexpensive tuning measure for your car. However, they only develop their full performance if you clean them thoroughly on a regular basis. Otherwise, not only can their lifespan suffer, but the engine may also be damaged. There are special air filter cleaners for cleaning. These are usually available in a small spray bottle in addition to the air filter. Why do you have to clean sports air filters? Unlike standard air filters, which are usually made of folded paper, most sports air filters are made of foam or a special cotton fabric. They are often also coated with a layer of a special oil. Manufacturers of retrofit filters promise a significantly higher air flow with the same filter performance. This can improve sound, performance and responsiveness. One of the biggest advantages of sports air filters is their durability: instead of having to be changed every 40,000 kilometers like standard paper air filters, sports air filters usually last a lifetime. This is how air filter cleaning works Instead of changing the filter every 40,000 - 60,000 kilometers like with a paper filter, there are cleaning intervals with a retrofitted sports air filter. The air filter should therefore be removed from its housing and thoroughly cleaned at regular intervals. How long this interval is depends on the manufacturer of the respective air filter. K&N specifies a cleaning interval of up to 50,000 miles (about 80,000 kilometers) for its retrofit filters, which are installed in the original air filter box. According to the manufacturer, conical air filters with a special intake system can even be driven up to 100,000 miles (about 160,000 kilometers) before they need to be cleaned. This is what you should bear in mind How often you should actually clean your filter also depends on the driving conditions in which you drive. If you often drive off-road or in dusty conditions, you should clean your filter much more often. You'll be on the safe side if you check your air filter every 20,000 - 40,000 kilometers and clean it as needed. When cleaning your air filter, make sure you use the right cleaner for your filter. Many manufacturers offer the right cleaner directly with the air filters. Cleaning the air filter: A step-by-step guide The exact process for cleaning an air filter depends on the manufacturer and filter model. So use the following instructions only as a guideline. If you want to be sure that you clean your air filter properly, you should refer to the manufacturer's cleaning instructions. This is how it works: Remove the air filter. Gently tap the filter out. If necessary, use a brush or vacuum cleaner,to remove coarse dirt and dust from the filter. Spray the air filter cleaner evenly onto your air filter and allow it to work for around 10 minutes. Rinse the filter with water. Always rinse from the clean side of the filter. Otherwise, dirt particles can get into the filter. Let the filter air dry. Warning: Never dry your air filter with a hair dryer or compressed air. This can damage the material. Only for oiled filters: Oil the filter evenly with the appropriate air filter oil and allow the oil to work for at least 20 minutes. Reinstall the air filter. If the filter surface is cleaned regularly, a retrofit filter will outlast most cars. K&N, for example, gives a 10-year or 1.6 million kilometer guarantee on its air filters."
filter	Universal filter			"In the universal filter category at kfzteile24 you will find sports air filters in particular that are suitable for more than one vehicle type. They are either mounted directly on the air mass meter of the injection system and replace the original air filter housing, or are supplied directly with a flow-optimized housing. Like all sports air filters, the type-independent variants are also popular due to their sound effect. To ensure that the powerful sound is not paid for by increased wear on the engine, the correct installation of the sports air filter is crucial, because after all, no foreign substances should get into the combustion chamber. As part of performance tuning, sports air filters can also help to increase performance. Universal sports air filter from K&N Petrol filter from MANN-FILTER Petrol filter for the fuel line A fuel line filter can usually also be used regardless of the vehicle type and takes on the function of a normal fuel filter when space is limited. Petrol filters are used in particular on motorcycles, scooters or quads. Please note that fuel line filters are only suitable for petrol-powered carburetor models and are not intended for diesel cars or vehicles with fuel injection systems."
transmission	transmission			"At kfzteile24 you can buy high-quality replacement and wear parts for your car's gearbox quickly and cheaply. We stock spare parts for all common vehicle manufacturers and car models. Thanks to a large warehouse with over a million parts and accessories, components for the gearbox are usually available within 24 hours of purchase. Order easily and conveniently online or contact our support team, who will be happy to advise you before you buy and help you with any questions. Manual gearbox of a Porsche Image: BerndB @wikimedia.org (CC BY-SA 3.0) Importance of the gearbox Gasoline and diesel engines have a comparatively narrow speed range. This means that the speeds must be converted in order to ensure normal driving. The gearbox in the car is responsible for this conversion. With a manual gearbox, the gears are selected manually, i.e. with a gear lever. In contrast, an automatic gearbox does not require this manual intervention. In addition to the engine, the gearbox is one of the most important basic components of a car. Defects in the gearbox can drastically limit the functionality of the vehicle and a complete replacement of the gearbox is usually associated with considerable costs. Therefore, pay attention to the quality of spare and wear parts. At kfzteile24 you can buy branded goods from well-known manufacturers such as febi bilstein, Victor Reinz or Blue Print. Of course, our inexpensive alternatives also meet all the requirements placed on gearbox parts."
transmission	Automatic transmission oils			"Like every transmission, the automatic transmission in a car also has the task of converting the engine speed and the engine torque. The background to this is the fact that every combustion engine works in a certain speed range and can only deliver a limited amount of torque within this range. The transmission usually has a stepped ratio, but sometimes it is also continuously variable (CVT transmission), the two parameters. In low gears, the gear is reduced, i.e. the speed of the crankshaft is converted into torque, while in high gears it is translated so that the drive shafts then rotate faster than the crankshaft. In automatic transmissions, this process is partially or fully automatic. The first variants were brought onto the market by Mercedes in the early 1960s. Since then, ""automatic"" has stood for comfortable driving at a high level. Many vehicles are now offered with both manual and automatic transmission. What happens when you engage the clutch? In contrast to driving with an automatic transmission, when you shift gears manually, you have to break the power connection between the engine and transmission by operating the clutch pedal. This releases the pressure plate from the clutch disc, which is no longer pressed against the flywheel. This is firmly connected to the crankshaft. Only the separation of power enables gear changes in the gearbox, which can be imagined as a complex collection of different gears. It is important to always make sure that you depress the clutch completely. If you do not do this, parts in the gearbox can be damaged. After you have disengaged the clutch, the accelerator is also released. If you do the opposite, i.e. first take your foot off the accelerator and then engage the clutch, the engine brakes and the vehicle jerks. However, if you press the accelerator for too long after disengaging the clutch, you will hear the engine howling as the speed increases. Clutch kit for a manual transmission Depending on the automatic transmission, converters, clutches or chains are used to connect to the engine. How an automatic transmission works The automatic transmission is often also referred to as an ?automatic manual transmission?, with a distinction being made between partially automatic transmissions and fully automatic transmissions. In semi-automatic transmissions, the clutch process is carried out by an automatic clutch system, which means that there is no clutch pedal. However, the driver is still responsible for choosing the right gear, which he selects using a gear lever. Fully automatic transmissions, on the other hand, not only interrupt the flow of power to the engine, but also select the appropriate gear ratio on their own. Control is usually electro-hydraulic or electro-pneumatic via appropriate cylinders. The type of automatic transmission can vary considerably, with modern vehicles even having continuously variable gear ratio changes, so-called CVT automatic transmissions (CVT - Continuously Variable Transmission).These are characterized by particularly high levels of comfort and fuel efficiency and can be implemented with either a push-link belt or a link chain. What are the advantages of an automatic transmission? Driving with an automatic transmission has various advantages for the driver. Many people simply enjoy being able to ""put their left foot to the side"" during long journeys and experience driving even more comfortably. Both hands can also remain on the steering wheel at all times and the driver can concentrate fully on the traffic. This not only increases road safety, but also removes a major obstacle for novice drivers. Although the myth that automatic transmissions consume more fuel still persists, modern automatic vehicles are proven to be more economical than manual vehicles. They can shift gears precisely and, in the CVT variant, are even able to offer the ideal gear ratio across the entire load range. Automatic transmissions also simplify very mundane traffic situations such as starting on a hill and at the same time protect the engine from excessive revs. Many drivers who have had the pleasure of driving a vehicle with an automatic transmission would never want to be without it. What does PRND stand for? Park - As soon as the vehicle is parked, the ""P"" gear is selected. The transmission is usually locked and sometimes the parking brake is activated. Reverse - Reverse gear allows you to drive backwards and is needed when maneuvering. Neutral - In this position there is no power transmission between the transmission and the engine, i.e. the car cannot be powered by the engine but is able to roll. Drive - This position is basically needed for driving. The transmission selects the correct gear. PRND gears in automatic vehicles Most automatic transmissions also offer the option of manual gear selection. (Image: Raniel Diaz @flickr.com (CC BY 2.0)) The selector lever can also offer additional gears. ""L"" possibly with the numbers 1 or 2 stands for Low and limits the transmission to first or first and second gear. ""S"" stands for Sport, which means that the automatic transmission downshifts faster and upshifts later. The higher acceleration increases driving pleasure, but also increases consumption. ""OD"" for overdrive is a gear that reduces the engine speed compared to the normally highest gear. It is used when cruising fast on motorways and reduces fuel consumption. What problems can occur with automatic transmissions? Like most parts of a car, the automatic transmission does not last forever and becomes more prone to failure over time. Irregularities in the gearshift behavior are hardly noticeable at first and can occur after around 50,000 km. Over time, they grow into a noticeable jerking sensation.At some point, the transmission may no longer shift at all. Noises and vibrations when shifting gears can also occur. The possible causes are as varied as the transmission is complex and the individual variants differ from one another. As a rule, only a specialized workshop is able to clarify and resolve the problem. Unfortunately, this work can be very expensive. As a driver, you can only ensure that you adhere to all maintenance intervals. In particular, regularly changing the transmission oil and checking the level to protect the wearing parts is an important preventative measure. As a rule, a check every 50,000 km is recommended. The oil should be changed every 60,000 to 80,000 km. Have the oil changed even if it is a lifetime fill, because even the best oil loses viscosity and lubricating ability over time. Automatic transmission with differential converter Automatic transmissions can only be repaired by specialists. (Image: Vestman @flickr.com (CC BY 2.0)) Towing a car with an automatic transmission Towing a car with an automatic transmission is very different from towing a car with a manual transmission. It is important to always first look for possible characteristics in the owner's manual. In most cases it is necessary to engage ""N"". However, this quickly reveals the problem that the drive axle and transmission are not interrupted. In addition, oil can no longer flow in a car with an automatic transmission when the transmission is switched off. As a result, the transmission can get hot and overheat. For this reason, most automatic cars can only be towed over relatively short distances in order to avoid damage - especially to the transmission. There are also restrictions with regard to speed. 40 km/h should not be exceeded if possible. If you want to be on the safe side, it is best to have the vehicle towed by a professional.Automatic transmission with differential converter Automatic transmissions can only be repaired by specialists. (Image: Vestman @flickr.com (CC BY 2.0)) Towing a car with an automatic transmission Towing a car with an automatic transmission is very different from towing a car with a manual transmission. It is important to always first look for possible characteristics in the operating manual. In most cases it is necessary to engage ""N"". However, this quickly reveals the problem that the drive axle and transmission are not interrupted. In addition, oil can no longer flow in a car with an automatic transmission when it is switched off. As a result, the transmission can get hot and overheat. For this reason, most automatic cars can only be towed over relatively short distances in order to avoid damage - especially to the transmission. There are also restrictions with regard to speed. 40 km/h should not be exceeded if possible. If you want to be on the safe side, it is best to have the car towed by a professional.Automatic transmission with differential converter Automatic transmissions can only be repaired by specialists. (Image: Vestman @flickr.com (CC BY 2.0)) Towing a car with an automatic transmission Towing a car with an automatic transmission is very different from towing a car with a manual transmission. It is important to always first look for possible characteristics in the operating manual. In most cases it is necessary to engage ""N"". However, this quickly reveals the problem that the drive axle and transmission are not interrupted. In addition, oil can no longer flow in a car with an automatic transmission when it is switched off. As a result, the transmission can get hot and overheat. For this reason, most automatic cars can only be towed over relatively short distances in order to avoid damage - especially to the transmission. There are also restrictions with regard to speed. 40 km/h should not be exceeded if possible. If you want to be on the safe side, it is best to have the car towed by a professional."
transmission	Seals			"Oil for lubricating the moving parts and hydraulic fluid for driving the various switching elements are the most important operating materials for an automatic transmission. Numerous seals and sealing rings are necessary to ensure that the fluids do not leak and do their job at their respective destination. They not only prevent the operating materials from escaping, but also the ingress of pollutants and foreign bodies, thus protecting the complex mechanics. They also compensate for pressure fluctuations that occur when driving. Shaft seal for an automatic transmission Radial shaft seal (Simmerring) The shaft seals are probably the most important seals in an automatic transmission. After all, the converted engine torque must be transmitted through the drive train to the drive axle or the wheels. This task is usually carried out directly by the drive shafts. In the case of rear-wheel drive with a front engine, however, a longitudinal shaft is necessary. Due to the rotating movement of the shafts, sealing the automatic transmission housing is a challenge. The shaft seals must be tight enough to prevent lubricant from escaping, but at the same time must not hinder the rotational movement in order to avoid power losses. Despite the highest standards and meticulous manufacturing processes, wear is still a common problem with seals. Seal kit for an automatic transmission from febi bilstein Other seals and seal kits At kfzteile24 you will find not only the obligatory shaft seals but also many other seals for your automatic transmission. The hydraulic filter or oil strainer must also be sealed and in a complete seal kit you will also find the right seal for the connection to the engine. As with most seals installed in cars, the parts are relatively cheap, but installation is comparatively expensive. Depending on the vehicle and transmission seat, replacing defective seals is time-consuming and often only possible with special tools. Therefore, make sure that you have all accessible seals replaced if necessary."
transmission	Housing/Parts			"The automatic transmission is a highly complex system in a modern car, as it must automatically convert the engine torque and engine speed to ensure efficient drive speeds and torques at any speed. It is easy to overlook the fact that the expensive system also requires inexpensive small parts to work. For example, an automatic transmission has a screw plug through which new transmission oil can be added. Transmission bearings of an automatic transmission Changing a defective transmission bearing If you hear a whirring or scratching noise while driving, this could be due to a defective transmission bearing. This can happen, for example, if there was insufficient lubrication or the material was overstressed. The problem: The damage can usually only be clearly seen when the transmission is removed. Since defective transmission bearings usually lead to metal abrasion and, in the worst case, the chips can also affect the rest of the transmission, such a defect can mean the end of the automatic transmission and, depending on the value of the vehicle, the car itself. However, if it is still worth repairing the gearbox, you can find suitable gearbox mounts at kfzteile24."
transmission	storage			"The automatic transmission is usually flanged directly to the engine and must be mounted like the engine. The task of the bearing is to absorb the weight and at the same time dampen vibrations. This protects the complex and heavily stressed internals from damage and at the same time increases driving comfort. The bearing of the transmission should not be confused with a gearbox bearing. Bearings for the transmission from f.becker line Damped bearings to prevent vibrations Vibrations and shocks can affect the automatic transmission from both the engine and the drive shafts. To prevent this from leading to an overload of the roller bearings and gears, efficient lubrication with transmission oil is essential and the bearing of the transmission housing is important. So-called silent block bearings are usually used, which are usually made of rubber and metal. They provide a support point for the housing and can convert vibrations that occur during driving into heat. In addition to the widely used rubber-metal bearings, hydro bearings are also sometimes used, which cover different frequency ranges and are regulated by the control unit. This makes for an even smoother ride. Automatic transmission bearings Changing the gearbox bearings The gearbox bearings should not be changed until noises occur, because once the gearbox is damaged, it is too late. Therefore, check the automatic transmission bearings at regular intervals. The rubber should feel supple and of course should not have any cracks. These can occur over time, as the rubber becomes brittle due to environmental influences and constant stress. Unfortunately, changing the bearings is time-consuming, but much cheaper than repairing any subsequent damage."
transmission	Oil pan/attachments	poetry		"An automatic transmission usually also has an oil pan or oil sump, which forms the lower end of the transmission. This transmission oil pan must be secured with an appropriate seal to prevent transmission oil from leaking out and getting into the environment. The transmission oil pan seal not only prevents lubricant from leaking out, but also foreign substances from penetrating the automatic transmission. Both water and solid particles could otherwise increase wear and tear and thus shorten the service life of the automatic transmission. Oil pan seal for the automatic transmission Changing the transmission oil pan seal If the seal between the oil pan and the automatic transmission is worn and transmission oil is leaking out, you should act quickly because lubrication is of crucial importance for the complex internal workings. One way to recognize a worn seal is by oil stains that form when the vehicle is parked. The outside of the oil pan will also show clear traces of oil. To change the seal, the transmission oil must be drained and the oil pan unscrewed. Then simply oil the new seal and then insert it. These are molded parts that usually only fit in one direction. After the oil pan has been screwed back onto the automatic transmission, the appropriate ATF oil is added. You should leave the work to a workshop that will ensure the necessary disposal of the old oil and determine the correct filling quantity."
transmission	sensor			"Modern electro-hydraulic automatic transmissions usually have an electronic transmission control unit (EGS), which initiates the gear change based on its setting and the incoming data by regulating the corresponding valves and actuators. The most important data of the EGS, also known as EHS for electro-hydraulic control unit, includes the load signal and the accelerator pedal position as well as the transmission output speed. Inductive speed sensors are often used for the measurement, in which an alternating voltage is induced in the sensor coil. The control unit can determine the speed from the frequency of the induced alternating voltage. Speed ??sensor for an automatic transmission Emergency program for the automatic transmission If implausible values ??occur during the speed measurement as an important parameter of the EGS, it can happen that the automatic transmission goes into emergency mode and thus prevents gear shifting. This is to prevent damage to the complex transmission. As a result, the car can usually only be driven in 1st or 2nd gear. Have the error memory read out and, if necessary, replace the defective speed sensor. Depending on the automatic transmission, this may involve more or less effort. In most cases, the fault diagnosis is the crucial point anyway."
transmission	Control/Hydraulics			"Automatic transmissions are characterized by automatic clutch engagement and disengagement. The gear shifting process in between is either initiated manually by the driver (semi-automatic transmission) or also controlled by the automatic transmission (fully automatic transmission). The corresponding processes take place according to the EVA principle, i.e. sensors transmit important key figures such as the driving speed or the accelerator pedal position, the control unit interprets these and shifts the gears electro-hydraulically or electro-pneumatically using the appropriate shift valves. Hydraulic filter for Mercedes Benz C 180 Electro-hydraulic transmission control Short shift times and high shift comfort in every driving situation and appropriate adjustment to the type of driver and their shifting preferences can only be achieved if the automatic transmission is electronically controlled. Depending on different control variables, electric valves are activated which build up and reduce hydraulic pressure in the shift elements. This is how the gear change is brought about. The electronic transmission control unit usually has several programs with different gearshift characteristics, such as Sport, Economy, Winter, Tiptronic or Steptronic. It is able to react to different transmission oil temperatures, inclines and declines, road conditions, trailer or cruise control operation, and to vary the gearshift times. The system consists of an oil pump that generates the necessary hydraulic pressure and pressure control valves. Of course, hoses, hydraulic filters and sometimes oil coolers are also necessary."
Heating	Heating			"Since you don't want to freeze in your car in winter, a heater is installed, which in its simplest version uses the heat produced by the combustion engine. To do this, the heat exchanger or heater cooler is simply integrated into the coolant circuit and the supply is controlled by a coolant control valve. This does have the disadvantage that it only gets warm when the engine is running, but no additional energy is required. The heat is practically a waste product of the combustion process. So that the engine reaches its operating temperature as quickly as possible and the heater can then heat the interior, you should drive off quickly and not wait in idle. On the one hand, this is not permitted and harmful to the environment, and on the other hand, it is not useful because the unit heats up much more quickly under a certain load. If you still only get cold air blowing at you, the heater is defective somewhere. Possible heater faults The car heater is simple and usually only shows two types of damage. Either the heater is activated but does not heat, or the heater is deactivated and still heats. In both cases, the coolant control valve that controls the flow of coolant into the heater core is probably affected. It could, for example, be rusted solid. Damage to the interior ventilation can also prevent the passenger compartment from getting warm. This is easy to recognize because there is either no air flow through the ventilation nozzles or there is only insufficient air flow. If this is the case, it is advisable to deactivate the heater so that the heater core does not get too hot and possibly damage the plastic on the dashboard. Heat exchanger in the car heater The heat exchanger is an important component of the car heater. A defective thermostat can also prevent the heater from getting warm. If the component does not close properly, the coolant flows into the large cooler circuit and is constantly cooled, which also affects the engine and takes significantly longer to get up to temperature. The result is increased consumption and poor exhaust emissions as well as increased wear. If the heater is defective, also check the coolant level and make sure that all lines are tight. Mechanical damage to the heat exchanger is rare, because unlike the radiator, stone chips are not a problem due to the installation position. The heater radiator itself can become clogged, however, if, for example, distilled water was not used and the coolant has a high lime content. Of course, radiator sealant can also cause the heat exchanger to become clogged. Why is the heater in the car important? On the surface, the heater in a car is a comfort system whose job is to heat the interior of the vehicle.But especially in winter, pleasant warmth not only increases the well-being of the driver and passengers, it also increases road safety. A relaxed driver can concentrate better and does not have to wear gloves or coats that restrict freedom of movement and delay reactions. This realization has contributed to the fact that auxiliary heaters, such as those widely used in Scandinavia, are also becoming increasingly popular in Germany."
Heating	Controls			"A heater in the car ensures a pleasant temperature in the passenger compartment. When it's cold outside, cozy warmth is not just a question of comfort but also of safety. A proper heater makes it unnecessary to wear coats or gloves in the car, for example, which gives the driver more freedom of movement and allows them to react more quickly in an emergency. Overall, relaxed drivers are also much more attentive and can usually react more quickly than stressed drivers. The heart of a heater is of course the heat exchanger, but without controls, handling would be extremely complicated. At kfzteile24 you will therefore find plenty of switches and light bulbs that make operation easier and can be replaced if something goes wrong."
Heating	Blower parts			"An interior fan, sometimes also called a heater fan, can be found in every vehicle. It does not matter whether the car has air conditioning or not. The interior fan has the job of supplying the passengers in the passenger compartment with fresh air and helps prevent fogged-up windows. It usually consists of a motor with a suitable bracket and a control unit. The electric motor drives the fan wheel and the moving air flows through the heat exchanger. When the heater is switched on, this is heated by the coolant, which in turn transports the thermal energy from the engine. It was released there when the fuel was burned. Interior fan for a VW Golf 2 from febi bilstein Interior fan for a Ford KA from Hella Using the interior fan correctly The interior fan is an important part of the heater in order to transport the warm air from the heat exchanger to the passengers and of course the driver of the car. But the air conditioning system cannot work without a functioning interior fan. You should pay attention to a few operating instructions and, for example, do not operate an air conditioning system that is fully turned on with a low fan speed. Otherwise, the cooling effect generated by the evaporator will be wasted. Do not point the air vents in the interior directly at your body to avoid catching a cold and continue to use the fan for a while after switching off the air conditioning system to blow moisture out of the system, which could otherwise serve as a breeding ground for germs."
Heating	Cooling water preheating			
Heating	Hoses/Pipes			"The importance of suitable hoses and pipes for the heater in the car can be seen from the fact that the heat exchanger is part of the radiator circuit as a heating element. This means that if a hose is defective, not only can the heater fail, but coolant can also leak out. The coolant, however, ensures that the engine does not overheat. Accordingly, you can also find suitable pipes and hoses for the heater among the radiator hoses, which you can buy cheaply online. They are usually flexible, heat-resistant and insensitive to corrosion from water, oil or fuel. However, the material becomes brittle over time due to thermal stress and vibrations. Fine cracks form through which the coolant evaporates before the hose finally breaks. The connections should also be checked regularly."
Heating	Control units			"The control unit for the heating or blower is also called the blower output stage. In colloquial terms, it is also known as a hedgehog, which the part has due to its distinctive design. The electronic control unit is responsible for translating the set target parameters of the ventilation or air conditioning system into a corresponding output, i.e. regulating the blower and heating so that they meet the needs of the occupants. Like all electronic systems, it must not react in a way that is susceptible to interference from other systems such as the car radio, telephone or navigation device. Control units for heating/ventilation are also known as hedgehogs due to their appearance. Heating/ventilation control unit for a BMW Signs of a defective blower output stage A defective control unit for heating and ventilation can be noticeable through a loss of performance, sporadic jumps in performance or total failure. In general, the blower seems to react in a decoupled manner from the manual settings. Sometimes the problems only occur in certain situations or at certain speeds. Acute fluctuations in performance are also an indication of a defective blower output stage. In some cars, the blower output stage can even activate the ventilation when the ignition is off, thus draining the battery. Blower output stage (hedgehog) at kfzteile24 A blower output stage should be replaced first if there are problems with the heating or ventilation in the car. The fit is important, because an incorrect control unit sends incorrect signals and limits the functionality of the heating and blower. Significant differences between individual blower stages can then no longer be determined, for example."
Heating	Valves/Control			"Similar to a normal wall radiator, the flow of the heat exchanger must also be regulated in order to determine the heating output. In cars, heating valves are also used for this purpose, but these are called cooling water valves or, more correctly, coolant control valves. They can open or block the coolant access to the heater cooler. The cross-section of the incoming water pipe is simply reduced accordingly and completely blocked when the heater is turned off. Similarly, the valve clears the way to the heat exchanger when the desired heating output is reached. A defective coolant control valve or heating valve can manifest itself in three ways. Either the heater no longer works at all or it constantly runs at full power. It is also conceivable that there is a constant warm air flow when the fan is switched on or that the air conditioning system performs less effectively."
Heating	Heat exchanger			"Cars usually have a heater that is integrated into the coolant circuit. To be more precise, it is the heat exchanger or heater cooler that ensures comfortable temperatures in the interior even in the cold season. When the heater is switched on, the heater control unit opens the coolant control valve and heated coolant can flow from the engine through the heat exchanger. This heats up and releases the thermal energy into the surrounding air. The now warm air is transported into the interior by a fan. The system offers the great advantage that the thermal energy generated when the fuel is burned can be used sensibly and the engine is cooled at the same time. On the other hand, the design means that the engine has already reached its operating temperature before the heater is able to heat the interior. Since this is often not the case, especially during cold starts in winter, heaters with heat exchangers are now often supplemented by so-called auxiliary heaters. Heat exchangers from febi bilstein Heat exchangers are also known as heater coolers Heat exchanger or heater cooler? The cooling system and heating of a car are connected and the terms heat exchanger and heater cooler describe the same component. The heat exchanger is usually installed behind the dashboard so that the heated air can quickly reach the interior through the fan. It is generally low-wear and rarely needs to be replaced. If the heating is not working, it is advisable to first take a closer look at the coolant control valve and the heating control. However, replacing the heat exchanger may be necessary if coolant is constantly being lost and the system is otherwise tight. Due to age and corrosion, the heat exchanger can become leaky and leak, which is also noticeable through a damp interior and fogged-up windows. The escaping coolant then becomes a breeding ground for germs, which become noticeable through a bad smell when the ventilation is switched on."
Information systems	Information systems			"Under the term information systems, you will find numerous high-tech systems in the kfzteile24 online shop that make car journeys comfortable. From simple car radios to hands-free systems for cell phones, speakers and amplifiers to helpful navigation systems, you can buy all the entertainment and communication solutions that make driving in modern cars an experience. We even have LED screens for passengers in stock. But perhaps you just need an antenna or suitable cables for your hi-fi system. In our shop, you can buy the parts cheaply online and usually receive them within 24 hours of ordering. kfzteile24 proves every day that low prices and fast delivery times do not have to come at the expense of service or quality. We work with well-known brand manufacturers such as Hella or Phonocar and our trained support staff will be happy to help you with any questions. Information systems in vehicles are not just a question of comfort. In the area of ??information systems, vehicle antennas ensure optimal reception that also works in remote areas. Antennas have now been developed into products that are not only attached to vehicle roofs and fenders. Modern developments are practically invisible and are integrated in the rear window, for example. The basic functions of the antennas are not affected in any way. This means that you can remain reachable and can also use the advantages of modern communication while on the move. Entertainment and relaxed driving through sophisticated information systems There are also more and more monitors and screens in the interior of a car. Reliable and high-contrast displays are gradually replacing the usual speedometers and discreetly provide the driver with important information about the car. The occupants in the back, on the other hand, are happy about entertainment systems that are integrated into the headrests. Corresponding monitors can also be retrofitted and are usually mounted on the roof and folded down. Reliable navigation devices have also become an indispensable part of the car. They provide enormous relief for drivers and passengers and, thanks to GPS, work ever more precisely. High-quality speakers and powerful subwoofers as well as suitable amplifiers ensure the right entertainment. At kfzteile24 you can buy all of these systems cheaply and conveniently online."
Information systems	antenna			"An antenna can receive radio waves, which are then converted into electrical signals. They enable the reception of countless radio stations and can contribute to interference-free and wireless communication. Modern navigation devices also benefit from this, as they rely on precise positioning in order to be able to determine the ideal route to the destination. In addition to many universal antennas, we also offer vehicle-specific variants. This can be the case, for example, with telescopic antennas that extend at the push of a button."
Information systems	Antennas (universal)			"A car is more than just a vehicle. Thanks to modern radio technology, you can enjoy music in the car, make phone calls or use satellite navigation to guide you to your destination. The antennas required for reception are available at particularly low prices from kfzteile24.de. The receiving antenna converts the electromagnetic free-space wave emitted by a transmitting antenna back into a line-bound electromagnetic wave. The principle was theoretically researched by James Clerk Maxwell and described precisely in Maxwell's equations. The German physicist Heinrich Hertz provided practical proof and made electromagnetic waves usable for telegraphy, radio and modern communication. The unit hertz is also used as a unit for frequency in his honour. Fin antenna for the car Radio and radio waves The signals used for wireless transmission of images, speech or navigation are transmitted via radio or radio waves, which are defined by the International Telecommunication Union as electromagnetic waves with a frequency below 3000 GHz. The corresponding wavelengths range from 1 m for VHF signals to 10 km for long waves. This means that radio waves are comparatively low in energy and therefore completely harmless. Visible light, in contrast, is measured in the nanometer range and has a frequency in the terahertz range. The antennas can therefore be installed in or on the car without any problems. We have GPS antennas, radio antennas, telephone and TV antennas on offer and of course also offer the appropriate extensions, plugs, amplifiers and adapters."
Information systems	Car radios (CD/DVD/USB)			"A radio receiver was installed in a vehicle for the first time in 1922, and with it the car radio was born. In contrast to their domestic relatives, however, car radios are specially developed for mobile use. They work with 12 V on-board voltage and must be as insensitive to shocks and vibrations as possible. In addition to the radio program, all modern car radios can also play sound media. At first these were compact cassettes and then audio CDs. CD slots are still widely used today, although music files are now increasingly being played via the USB port or SD and MMC cards. Solid-state technology offers the advantage of being able to do without moving parts. Disturbances in music enjoyment are thus almost impossible. The storage media also offer significantly more space for the entire song database. Car radio with 3 inch display Car radios are standardized The car radio is usually located in the center console of a vehicle and its housing size is usually standardized. These car radios can easily be replaced with newer models. If the car radio is integrated into the navigation system at the factory, the combination cannot usually be replaced by a universal system. However, these car radios often offer convenience systems such as operation via switches on the steering wheel. This allows the driver to continue to pay attention to the traffic. Particularly high-quality car radios can also play DVDs and show the image either on their own display or on TFT screens in the rear. It is even possible to connect game consoles in some cases."
Information systems	Screens / Monitors			"Monitors and screens can now be manufactured so compactly and inexpensively that they can be used anywhere to display information. LCD screens are considered good form, especially in upper middle class cars and of course in the luxury segment. While the monitors in the dashboard or center console are mainly used to operate the on-board computer and navigation system, the passengers in the back usually just enjoy the additional entertainment. For example, the screens can be built into the front seats or folded down as roof monitors. Long journeys with children and young people in particular are much more relaxed with appropriate entertainment. Monitor for the car from Phonocar Monitors for the car in different sizes When buying screens for the car, you should pay attention to the size and features of the device. Some of the monitors have touch displays, headphone inputs, remote controls or USB ports and also differ in their resolutions and cable inputs. They are generally all PAL or NTSC compatible. The installation should be carried out by a qualified workshop, because the necessary cables for the power supply and the signal transmission from any TV tuners or DVD players should be laid without interference or chafing."
Information systems	Installation frame (universal)			"The radio slot of a car has a size specified by ISO of 180 mm wide, 160 mm deep and either 50 or 100 mm high. These dimensions, which were set by the International Organization for Standardization, were adopted by the German Institute for Standardization (DIN) and are therefore identical. The larger slot height is often referred to as double DIN or double ISO and helps to quickly find the right size when purchasing universal spacers or installation frames. Such an installation frame or spacer frame may be necessary if a new radio is to be installed and the dimensions do not fit 100%. This allows annoying gaps to be closed, which improves the visual impression."
Information systems	Crossovers			"Due to their design, loudspeakers are only suitable for a certain frequency range of an audio signal. Tweeters, for example, are small so that the membrane is actually able to oscillate quickly enough. Midrange speakers are larger and woofers, not surprisingly, even larger. In order to produce a sound experience that is as distortion-free and powerful as possible, cars usually have several different loudspeakers installed, each covering a frequency spectrum. The incoming audio signal is divided up using a crossover. Crossover from Phonocar Function of the crossover The audible frequency range of a person extends from approx. 20 Hz (low tones) to approx. 16 kHz (high tones), which broadband loudspeakers cannot reproduce without distortion. This can lead to partial oscillations with destructive interference, i.e. the volume drops. To prevent this from happening, crossovers divide the audio signal coming from the amplifier and pass it on to the intended loudspeakers in the corresponding frequency range. In the car or car hi-fi sector, a distinction is made between the front system and the rear fill. The speakers for reproducing high tones are usually installed in the dashboard, the A-pillar or the front doors, while the lower tones come from speakers in the rear. A subwoofer in the trunk complements the system."
Information systems	HiFi cables & wires			"Even if the focus in cars is on safety for good reasons, entertainment should not be neglected either. Audio systems ensure relaxed and stress-free driving and multimedia systems in the back keep the children entertained. In order to be able to enjoy music and entertainment without disruption, not only good speakers and suitable systems are necessary, but also good cables. The cables must withstand the special conditions (heat, cold and vibrations) of a car and be well insulated so that no cracking noises are induced. The correct shielding is of course also important to protect the vehicle's electrical systems. Otherwise, interference in the communication between the various control units could even paralyze the car. Coaxial cable for car hi-fi Single cables and cable sets In our online shop you will find a large selection of different cables for the respective application. We offer extensions and transitions from cinch to jack. The RCA cables are available in different lengths and with single and multiple shielding. Gold-plated plugs, which are also available in angled form, ensure clean data transmission. Of course, we also have couplings for connecting individual coaxial cables, so there are no limits to the way you set up your car hi-fi system. Adapter cables and, of course, power cables complete the range. If you want to connect an amplifier or power amplifier, you can also use one of our cable sets."
Information systems	Speakers (universal)			"The sound makes the music also applies to entertainment in the car. After all, even the best car radio can only show its full class if the connected speakers reproduce both the deep bass and the high peaks in a room-filling and distortion-free manner. Since there are physical limits to the sound generation of a single speaker, audio systems in which tweeters, midrange speakers, woofers and the subwoofer cover the entire audible frequency range have become popular among enthusiasts. However, it must be noted that the on-board voltage of 12V is usually not sufficient. Voltage converters provide a solution and additional batteries are necessary in the car hi-fi sector. Woofers for the car 2-way speaker system Speakers for every application Speakers for cars have to meet special quality requirements, because the limited space and the different resonance frequencies of individual components can have a negative impact on listening pleasure. Vibrations when driving are also inevitable. Car speakers are therefore made particularly solidly and are decoupled from the bodywork by sufficient insulation to avoid unwanted resonance vibrations. If you neglect the insulation, you risk annoying droning noises. Since not only entertainment systems are connected to the speakers, but also hands-free systems, perfect voice reproduction is important in addition to optimal music. Installing the speakers The impedance of speakers in a car is usually 4 ohms, with the front ones being referred to as the front system. They can be installed in the dashboard, the mirror triangle, the A-pillar or the front doors. Subwoofers are usually located in the trunk. In addition to the speakers, you can find many other useful things at kfzteile24 such as adapters or spacer rings, speaker covers or fabric covers. This means you can set up your own audio system inexpensively or replace defective speakers inexpensively. When installing new speakers, make sure to use multi-shielded cables, as otherwise the car's electrics could be disturbed. On the other hand, unwanted noises are also conceivable if electrical interference fields occur."
Information systems	Amplifiers / Power amplifiers			"Power amplifiers or external amplifiers are required in car hi-fi systems to increase the performance of the sound system to the desired level. They are the heart of the system and ensure that the amplitude of the output signal is increased. The higher power is necessary to increase the vibrations of the speakers, which in turn results in a louder sound. The necessary amplification of the signal must be as distortion-free as possible so as not to endanger the enjoyment of the music. Clipping is a phenomenon in which the sound no longer describes a clean sine curve and is flattened in the peaks and troughs. This can be due to an input signal that is too large, among other things. High-quality amplifiers recognize this and react accordingly. As an audio fan, you should therefore not skimp on the power amplifier. 5+1 amplifier with Dolby Digital decoder Which amplifier is the right one? The choice of amplifier depends primarily on the number and type of speakers that are controlled by it. 4-channel amplifiers, for example, are widely used. The power is given in watts, with the RMS value being the most meaningful. It is determined in a complex measuring process across the entire frequency range. However, pay attention to the specified resistance. Car speakers usually have a resistance of 4 ohms, but there are also versions with 8 ohms. The power drops accordingly. E-channel power amplifier from Phonocar What do you need to bear in mind when installing? Installing a power amplifier in conjunction with a car hi-fi system is usually complex and should be left to specialists. The entire system must be coordinated, which usually also involves installing additional batteries and capacitors to ensure a constant voltage supply. The power cables must have enough conductors to prevent cable fires and, like the signal cables, must be adequately shielded. Otherwise, they could affect the on-board electronics of a modern car. The sound can also be distorted by electromagnetic fields. Finally, resonance frequencies that would lead to unwanted droning must be prevented by installing special acoustic mats. Finally, the power loss of an amplifier must also be considered, as the efficiency is around 70%. The remaining power is lost as heat. The power amplifier should therefore be installed in such a way that sufficient cooling is guaranteed.
"
Interior	Interior			"The positive effect of a comfortable and visually appealing vehicle interior should not be underestimated. After all, drivers and passengers usually see more of the interior than the exterior of the car. When it comes to interior design, every driver naturally has their own ideas, requirements and needs. In many cases, it is therefore a good idea to customize the vehicle interior using accessories. This can change the appearance and improve comfort. Door handle for the interior There are also products that increase the functionality or practicality of the interior. These include, for example, trunk liners, mats for the trunk and floor mats. At kfzteile24 there are also various products that change the look and feel to make the interior appear sportier and more exclusive. These include, for example, anti-glare strips, color sprays, sports steering wheels, gear knobs, pedal sets, door pins, window tinting and seat covers. In addition, kfzteile24 offers products for purchase that improve comfort, including armrests, ashtrays, power windows, handles, steering wheel covers, sun visors and special accessories for the seats. In addition, you can also buy child seats and baby carriers in the kfzteile24 online shop to transport your offspring safely."
Interior	dashboard			"The dashboard is usually no longer a board in a car and is sometimes referred to as the instrument panel. The most important instruments are usually located behind the steering wheel in the driver's direct field of vision. The center console, on the other hand, often houses the controls for the car's comfort systems. In particular, the car radio, air conditioning, ventilation and increasingly also the navigation system are located here. Control knobs for the dashboard Parts for the dashboard The dashboard and its switches, buttons and controls determine the interior of a vehicle to a large extent and should therefore always be clean and ready for use. In our shop you can buy ventilation controls or light switches, for example. The accessories are usually inexpensive and can be changed without much effort. Tools are usually not even required for this work."
Interior	armrest			"A center armrest is exactly what you imagine when you hear the term. An armrest between the seats in a car. It allows you to sit particularly relaxed, even on long journeys, and prevents neck and back pain thanks to the more ergonomic posture. An armrest also usually offers additional storage space for everyday items such as pens and notes. You also always have your shopping chip to hand, and a center armrest is also suitable as a place to put your cell phone or wallet."
Interior	Blind strips (universal)			"Anti-glare strips for the windshield: effective privacy and sun protection Everyone who drives regularly is probably familiar with the problem: the sun comes out - and visibility decreases. The low sun can be particularly glaring in the mornings and evenings. This not only limits visibility - it is also really tiring in the long run. Sun visors can help against this - but they are not perfect. They only cover a small part of the windshield, so they do not help against the strong difference in brightness that the eyes have to contend with. And if the sun is in an unfavorable position, they often have no chance despite variable adjustment options. The advantages of anti-glare strips Anti-glare strips, on the other hand, are a permanent solution to annoying glare. They are attached to the upper part of the windshield and serve as privacy and sun protection. Most anti-glare strips consist of a film strip approx. 150x20 cm long, which you can individually adjust to your windshield. They can therefore be used universally for almost all vehicles. An anti-glare strip on the windshield offers the following advantages: permanent glare protection heat protection in summer individual look uncomplicated installation inexpensive What you need to bear in mind with anti-glare strips Unfortunately, you cannot simply attach anti-glare strips to your windshield as you please. There are strict requirements in the StVZO for this. To ensure that you can drive your car legally after fitting your anti-glare strip, you should bear the following in mind: The total area of ??all stickers (including vignettes, environmental stickers, etc.) must not be larger than 0.1 m  No more than a quarter of the window must be covered The window frame and all seals must remain free A clear view must be guaranteed when driving Your sun visor provides a good indication of how wide the anti-glare strip can be. If you fold it completely towards the windshield, the lower end of the cover will be roughly the same as the lower end of your anti-glare strip. To be on the safe side, you should measure again before fitting. Installation instructions To attach an anti-glare strip to your windscreen, you will need the following equipment: the film strip that you want to attach to your windscreen a cutter knife for cutting to size a squeegee a spray bottle filled with water and a little washing-up liquid (for cleaning and as installation fluid) a lint-free cloth (e.g. microfiber cloth) adhesive tape (preferably masking tape) a hairdryer It is also helpful to have a second person to help you with installation. Anti-glare strips can be attached to the inside or outside of the window. Installation on the outside is a little easier because you have more space and the interior mirror is not in the way. If you attach your anti-glare strip on the inside, it will last significantly longer. Our installation instructions therefore refer to installation on the inside.If you want to attach the anti-glare strip to the outside, you can also use it as a guide. And this is how it works: Clean your windshield thoroughly from the outside and inside with the water/detergent mixture and a lint-free cloth. Spray your windshield from the outside with the assembly fluid. Place the film strip in the way you want to attach it later. The protective film should be facing you. Do not remove the protective film yet. Cut off the excess film. Follow the upper and side window frames. If your interior mirror is attached to the windshield, you must cut the film according to the mirror mount. Remove the protective film from your film strip. Leave the film on the outside of the windshield. Spray the adhesive side of the film and the inside of your windshield with assembly fluid. Remove the damp film from the outside and place it on your windshield from the inside. Spray assembly fluid again on the side of the film facing you and use the squeegee to push the liquid between the film and the window from the inside to the outside. Cut off everything that sticks out with the cutter knife. Use the squeegee to remove all air bubbles and liquid residues from under the film. If necessary, you can heat the film with a hair dryer. Admire your new anti-glare strip on the windshield! Tips for installation If possible, make sure that the temperature of your anti-glare strip is at least 10 degrees. After installation, you should wait at least three hours before moving your car. If it is raining, you should wait a little longer. You should also not use the windshield wipers during this time. It takes about a week for the film to develop its full adhesive strength. If you have attached the anti-glare strip to the outside of your windshield, you should not drive to the car wash until then.Spray more installation fluid onto the side of the film facing you and use the squeegee to push the fluid away from between the film and the window from the inside to the outside. Cut off anything that sticks out with the cutter knife. Use the squeegee to remove all air bubbles and liquid residues under the film. If necessary, you can heat the film with a hair dryer. Admire your new anti-glare strip on the windshield! Tips for installation If possible, make sure that the temperature of your anti-glare strip is at least 10 degrees. After installation, you should wait at least three hours before moving your car again. If it's raining, you should wait a little longer. You should also not use the windshield wipers during this time. It takes about a week for the film to develop its full adhesive strength. If you have attached the anti-glare strip to the outside of your windshield, you should not drive to the car wash until then.Spray more installation fluid onto the side of the film facing you and use the squeegee to push the fluid away from between the film and the window from the inside to the outside. Cut off anything that sticks out with the cutter knife. Use the squeegee to remove all air bubbles and liquid residues under the film. If necessary, you can heat the film with a hair dryer. Admire your new anti-glare strip on the windshield! Tips for installation If possible, make sure that the temperature of your anti-glare strip is at least 10 degrees. After installation, you should wait at least three hours before moving your car again. If it's raining, you should wait a little longer. You should also not use the windshield wipers during this time. It takes about a week for the film to develop its full adhesive strength. If you have attached the anti-glare strip to the outside of your windshield, you should not drive to the car wash until then."
Interior	Color spray (coloring)			"The areas of application for color spray are almost endless. For example, you can set colorful accents by coloring the center console, dashboard, steering wheel or seats. Tuning fans in particular will be delighted by the endless combination possibilities. Use color spray to design the interior of your car according to your ideas and preferences. It couldn't be more individual. The easy application and the abrasion-resistant, elastic surface also make paint sprays ideal for reconditioning older vehicles. Conceal scratches or cracks and give the interior a new shine."
Interior	Design cockpit films			"Drivers usually spend a lot of time in their cars, whether for professional reasons or because of their passion for cars. It is therefore no wonder that the interior contributes to their well-being, both visually and haptically. Design film for the dashboard, so-called cockpit film, gives plain plastic surfaces an attractive look and thereby increases the value of the vehicle. Do you like dignified elegance and love classic? Then go for the cockpit design film with wood grain. Less conspicuous, but no less chic, are surfaces that exude a leather-like character. Modernity and sportiness can be achieved through silvery shimmering highlights in the interior, which are almost indistinguishable from real aluminum. Cockpit film in aluminum design Who is design film suitable for? Design films are an inexpensive way for vehicle lovers to give their car a new shine. Older cars in particular benefit from the rejuvenation treatment. Worn and faded plastic surfaces are covered by the film and a new impression is created. The cockpit film is also suitable for individual redesigns and personal accentuations. It is simply applied to panels, consoles and doors and should be worked with a sharp knife. Similar to external filming, experience is necessary to achieve the desired result, because the film must be applied without creases and without air bubbles."
Interior	Window regulator			"The window lifters of a car enable the windows to be lowered into the car doors, thus allowing fresh air to be easily supplied to the interior. On hot days in particular, an open side window can quickly cool the temperature in the interior before the air conditioning takes over. Window lifters seem natural to us these days, but tilt and hinged windows such as those in the Renault 4 or Citro n 2CV were still installed well into the 1990s. However, the patent for a mechanical lifting device for windows was granted in 1928. These window lifters were operated with a window crank, and the principle has not changed to this day. Structure and function of window lifters Window lifters always consist of two parallel guide rails with sliding jaws that hold the window and are installed in the door. The sliding jaws, which are also known as window holders, are connected at the top and bottom with a circumferential Bowden cable. This is tensioned and holds the sliding jaws in the desired position and thus the window. As the cable runs around and moves both sliding jaws at the same time, the window is raised and lowered evenly and jamming is prevented. The necessary force is either applied by a window crank or, much more frequently, by a window lift motor. As a rule, a control unit also checks and regulates the performance of the electric motor to avoid injuries and damage. Structure of an electric window lifter If the window can no longer be moved, either the motor is defective or the Bowden cable is torn. Image: Cschirp @wikimedia.org (CC BY-SA 3.0) Retrofitting electric window lifters In our shop you will find inexpensive retrofit kits that contain all the necessary parts as a set. This naturally includes the window lifter motor, which drives the electric window lifters. It is controlled via the control panel. Thanks to numerous cables and a wide range of adapters, the window lifter kit is suitable for almost every car. However, installation usually requires a lot of time as well as manual skill. The interior panel of the doors is removed and the motor must be adjusted so that the windows can be opened and closed completely. We recommend that you have this work carried out in a qualified specialist workshop. Repairing defective window regulators Repairing defective window regulators is also a job for the workshop, as numerous cables can be damaged when removing the side panel. In some cases, these are routed along the door panel instead of the door. The most common cause of defective window regulators are broken Bowden cables, which make replacement difficult in that the window also gets stuck in the door and cannot be moved to a possible maintenance position. To preventTo avoid the window being cracked or scratched, window regulator repairs should always be carried out by two people.
"
Interior	Foot mats			"Floor mats for the interior of a car are also known as car mats. They protect the interior of the vehicle from dirt and grime and also serve as a design element. They are available as universal mats that can be cut to size and made to fit the respective car. When buying floor mats, the material must be taken into account, as they are available in both rubber and textile, each with different properties. Polyester car mats Textile floor mats A textile car mat consists of the raw material (usually tufted velour, felt or nonwoven fabric) and the surface textile made of synthetic fibers (polypropylene, polyamide or polyester). An anti-slip back coating is intended to prevent the mat from slipping, which is particularly important for the driver's mat in order not to endanger the freedom of movement of the pedals. Textile mats have the disadvantage of absorbing moisture. They can therefore become a breeding ground for germs or be responsible for fogged-up windows in winter. On the other hand, they are generally perceived as more comfortable. Rubber floor mats Rubber floor mats The basis for rubber car mats are elastomers such as styrene-butadiene rubber, ethylene-propylene-diene rubber, natural rubber or thermoplastic elastomers. The floor mat is made from a mixture of these basic materials using vulcanization or thermoplastic deformation. Rubber mats are also usually provided with an anti-slip layer. Some cars offer standard stop systems for the driver to safely prevent slipping. In contrast to textile mats, rubber mats are easier to clean, but are perceived as more practical than comfortable."
Interior	Gas springs			"Gas springs or gas pressure springs are used in various places in the car. Most people come across these components in the trunk lid, where they support opening and hold the lid up against the force of gravity. The functional principle is always the same and can also be used with the foot parking brake. There is a gas (usually nitrogen) in the pressure tube of the gas spring and the piston and piston rod move within the pressure cylinder. The piston would seal one side from the other gas-tight if there were not a narrow valve through which the gas can pass the piston. However, the narrow point is always chosen so that the gas pressure rises in front of the piston, which creates a restoring force until the pressure on both sides is equalized via the valve. Gas spring for a VW Touareg Replacing gas pressure springs Defective gas springs can be recognized by the fact that the piston rod connected to the piston can be moved easily and without counterpressure. The cause is almost always that the pneumatic system has a leak and the gas has been able to escape. Damaged valves or pistons can also be responsible and a repair is not possible. Instead, buy cheap replacements from kfzteile24 and install a new gas spring. They are usually easy to reach and replace without any problem."
Interior	Handles			"The interior of a vehicle is usually more important for well-being than the exterior. After all, as a driver, you spend most of your time behind the wheel. But it's not just the layout of the controls and the materials used in the interior that play a role. Cleanliness and function also have an effect. Worn door handles, for example, also make a car look older and should be replaced, especially if you are about to sell the car. Of course, the handles should also be replaced if they have broken off. Some older BMW handles in particular have this problem. Door handle (inside) for a BMW Replacing the handles Changing the inner door handles can be done yourself with a little practical skill, but we recommend leaving the work to a qualified specialist workshop. The Bowden cable must be hooked in, which is usually easier to reach when the door panel has been removed. Before changing, when buying new handles, you should pay attention to the installation side, which is always indicated from the driver's perspective. Usually, identical door handles are installed at the front and back of the interior, but you should check this to be sure."
Interior	Hand/foot lever mechanism			"Switches and pedals are part of the hand and foot levers of a car and enable the driver to transmit commands to the respective control units, which in turn implement the driver's wishes using all the necessary sensor data. For this purpose, commands are given to servomotors and actuators or relays are activated. It is clear that the driver only has indirect control over the car, but no one needs to fear losing control. Increasing electronics support and optimize this. Comfort and safety increase, but unfortunately so does the cost of repairs. The hand and foot levers, on the other hand, are only subject to mechanical stress. For example, the pedal pad on the accelerator, clutch or brake pad may be worn out. If this is the case, a replacement ensures that the foot cannot slip. Indicator switch for a VW Golf II Replacing switches and pedals Material fatigue can also cause damage to the switches or pedals, and anyone looking for indicator switches and other steering column switches will also find what they are looking for at kfzteile24. Replacing them can also be worthwhile if the vehicle is to be sold and, for example, the labels for the individual functions on the switches have faded over time. However, the replacement is time-consuming and should be left to a specialist. Pedal pads, on the other hand, can be replaced yourself."
Interior	Instruments			"Instruments enable the driver to keep an eye on relevant parameters while driving. The speedometer is usually particularly important. Only those who know what speed they are traveling at can adhere to specifications and guidelines. A well-calibrated display enables appropriate driving behavior. Fines are avoided and safety increases. But other values ??can also be interesting. For example, the oil or cooling water temperature can be observed, which allows conclusions to be drawn about the engine's performance and potential dangers to be recognized early on. Fuel pressure indicator from raidhp Instruments as a design element The interior of a car is not only determined by the materials used, but can also be individualized by the displays and instruments. Additional displays can emphasize the sporty character of a vehicle and develop their own charm, especially at night. Whether the displays work digitally or analogue is a matter of taste. Additional displays can be accommodated in the radio slot, for example. The A-pillar is also a good option and, of course, the instruments can also be attached to the dashboard in appropriate holders. In this way, you can build your own cockpit and feel like a pilot. However, despite all the enthusiasm, please note that the instruments must not distract you from the traffic."
Interior	Instruments	Mounting bracket		"Instrument holders or installation holders are usually plastic parts that serve to hold additional instruments such as pressure or temperature displays. They are either glued or screwed and can usually be painted. This means that the cockpit can be adapted to individual requirements and the interior can be designed uniformly. Instrument holders are available from kfzteile24 as vehicle-specific components that are only suitable for the respective car model and as universal installation holders that can be used in a variety of cars. Instrument holder for three displays Installing instrument holders Place the additional elements so that they are clearly visible and the desired overall impression is created. However, please note that attention must always be paid to the traffic. Additional displays must not dazzle or impair traffic perception. The appropriate holders can either be ordered individually or as multiple holders for up to three additional displays. Make sure that the holder fits well and follow the installation instructions. Instrument holders for the A-pillar must not be installed, for example, if an airbag is installed there."
Interior	Child seats & baby carriers			"For the safe transport of a child in the car, there is no alternative to a suitable child seat or a tested baby seat. The systems, also known as restraint systems, have been compulsory for children under 12 years of age with a height of less than 150 cm since 1993, and violations are punished with fines and possibly points in the driving aptitude register in Flensburg. This also applies if the child seats or baby seats used do not meet the current test standards. At kfzteile24 you will of course only receive safe and approved systems that usually also meet the strict ECE-R 44/04 standard. Baby seats are always installed rear-facing. A multifunctional seat protects the child until the child seat requirement ends. Correct installation is important. Child seats and baby seats can only develop their full protective effect if they are installed correctly and in accordance with the instructions for use. The deceleration forces that act in the event of an accident are enormous and the seat or baby seat must not come loose under any circumstances. In addition to a secure connection using either a three-point belt or the Isofix system, the installation direction is also crucial. Baby seats for children under 13 kilograms are always installed facing the rear, as the child's neck muscles would not be able to hold the head, which is proportionally large to the body, in the event of an impact. Also note that rear-facing baby seats cannot be installed on the front passenger seat if there is a passenger airbag. Forward-facing child seats can generally be installed on the front passenger seat if there are no warnings from vehicle manufacturers and child seat producers to the contrary. However, the position on the front passenger seat is often not recommended. Child seats usually belong on the back seat."
Interior	Child seats & baby carriers	Baby carriers		"Baby seat for the car If you are travelling with children in the car, you must take special precautions. The current regulation stipulates that children up to the age of 15 months may only travel in a rear-facing baby seat. The ADAC recommends that forward-facing child seats should only be used from the age of 2. So in order to travel with your baby in accordance with the regulations - and above all safely - you should get a suitable baby seat. The following factors play a role when choosing a suitable baby seat for the car: The age of your child The size of your child The type of attachment The comfort So that your mini-me can enjoy car journeys in the baby seat comfortably and safely, you should take enough time to choose the right seat. Safety standards for baby seats The right baby seat should meet the safety standard UN ECE Reg. 129 (also known as i-Size). The i-Size standard replaced the previous UN ECE Reg. 44/04 in 2013. According to the updated standard, all child seats are now classified according to body size, no longer according to body weight. Manufacturers can determine for themselves which size range the respective seat is suitable for. You can find out which ECE test mark a baby seat has in the product description when you buy it online. But you can also read it directly on the seat. Baby seats with the ECE-R 44/04 test mark (and also seats with the previous standard ECE 44/03) are still permitted. What is a baby seat actually? An overview of the child seat groups According to the old (but still valid) UN ECE Reg. 44/04, child car seats are divided into five groups: Class 0: transverse or rear-facing baby seats for babies up to 10 kg body weight (up to approx. 12 months) Class 0+: rear-facing baby seats for babies and toddlers from 0 to 13 kg (up to approx. 18 months). Class 1: Forward-facing seats or rear-facing reboarders for children between 9 and 18 kg (approx. 1.5 to 4 years) Class 2: Booster seats with or without back support for children between 15 and 25 kg (approx. 3-7 years) Class 3: Booster seats with or without back support for children between 22 and 36 kilograms (approx. 7 to 12 years). According to the ECE-R 129 standard, however, booster seats are only permitted for children over 125 cm tall. Child seat classes 0 and 0+ are therefore referred to as baby seats. According to UN ECE Reg. 44/04, they are suitable for babies from birth up to a body weight of 13 kg. Attaching the baby seat in the car: Here's how it works There are two ways to attach a baby seat in the car: Attachment with a three-point belt: Every baby seat can be attached to the seat with the car's usual 3-point belt. The belt is pulled around the baby seat several times and through the corresponding eyelets and then snapped into place on the car seat as usual. ISOFIX ? the magic word for baby seats:The term ISOFIX comes into play when it comes to correctly attaching the baby seat in the car. It refers to a standardized fastening system for baby seats and child seats. This saves you having to deal with the belt. ISOFIX mounts have been installed in all new vehicles since 2013. Baby seats with ISOFIX have two hooks attached that snap into two eyelets on the car seats. Since baby seats are not permanently fixed but are also used for carrying, some of them are also available with a so-called ISOFIX base station, which is attached to the car seat as described. The baby seat is then placed on the ISOFIX base station and snaps into place. If you want to attach a baby seat with ISOFIX in your car, you should make sure that the seat is suitable for your vehicle before buying. You can find corresponding lists from the respective vehicle or seat manufacturer. What you should consider when attaching a baby seat Practice makes perfect: Unlike child seats in other classes, baby seats are not permanently attached to the car. Instead, you can take it out of the car together with the baby. Therefore, you should be able to install and remove a baby seat quickly. It is best to familiarize yourself with the fastening system before using the baby seat for the first time. Your partner should also be able to buckle the baby seat in correctly. The same applies to family members who will be traveling in the car with your baby. Rear-facing is the right way Since July 2013, it has been compulsory to transport babies up to the age of 15 months in a rear-facing or side-facing child seat. This is for safety reasons: the head is the heaviest part of a baby's body - it makes up about a quarter of the body weight. If the head is thrown forwards during an emergency stop or impact, the baby is extremely at risk due to its weak neck muscles. If the baby seat is placed backwards on the seat in accordance with legal requirements, the baby's head will be pushed back into the upholstery. This significantly reduces the risk to the baby. Safer without an airbag If the baby seat is placed on the front passenger seat, the airbag could dangerously hit and crush the baby in the event of a collision or sudden braking. This is why you must always deactivate the airbag on rear-facing child seats such as baby seats when you transport the baby in the front passenger seat. When the airbag is active, it is forbidden to attach baby seats and other rear-facing child seats to the front passenger seat. Buying the right baby seat - these are the criteria Pay attention to the reclining function The baby is in a lying position in the seat. So that your baby's spine and neck vertebrae can develop healthily, it should lie as flat as possible. This is especially true for longer journeys.It is therefore best to choose a baby seat with a reclining function. If your child is a little older and the reclining function is no longer necessary, the seat can be adjusted accordingly. This is also practical when your child has a sibling and the correct reclining position in the baby seat becomes important again. Some baby seats are even equipped with a slatted frame that protects your baby's still unstable back. This prevents it from being shaken by bumps in the road. Note: Despite the necessary comfort, this position cannot be compared to a completely flat lying position in a stroller or on a bed. Therefore, you should limit the use of the baby seat for the car to car journeys and not make it the number one means of transport for your baby. Choose the right straps Before the journey, you must of course buckle your baby into the baby seat. A class 0+ baby seat (according to UN ECE Reg. 44/04) is designed for babies aged 0 to 18 months - your baby will grow quite a bit during this period. That's why the straps on the baby seat should be adjustable. The straps should always be tight enough to protect the baby. To ensure that the straps don't cut into, press into or chafe the baby's skin, the straps on the baby seat should be covered with soft fabrics. Practical features The fabric of a good baby seat should be breathable so that your baby doesn't sweat. It should also be removable. Then you can simply wash it in the machine and it will stay fresh for longer.Baby seats also have some useful extras such as sun shades, side pockets for diapers and other baby accessories or the option to attach pendants and other toys. To ensure that your baby is always nice and warm, you can equip the baby seat with a footmuff or blanket. It's best to buy a baby seat before things get serious If you buy the baby seat before the baby is born, you should choose a baby seat with a seat reducer. This way, your newborn will always fit in the baby seat, even if it is a premature baby or generally a little too small for the actual size of the baby seat. As an expectant mother or father, you should generally think about buying a baby seat before the birth. The newborn's first car ride is usually from the hospital to home. Then you should have a baby seat ready and not be left empty-handed or without a car seat in the event of an unexpectedly early birth.which protects your baby's still unstable back. This will prevent it from being shaken around by bumps in the road. Note: Despite the necessary comfort, this position cannot be compared to lying completely flat in a stroller or on a bed. For this reason, you should limit the use of the baby seat for the car to car journeys and not make it the number one means of transport for your baby. Choose the right straps Before the journey, you must of course buckle your baby into the baby seat. A class 0+ baby seat (according to UN ECE Reg. 44/04) is designed for babies aged 0 to 18 months - your baby will grow quite a bit during this time. For this reason, the straps on the baby seat should be adjustable. The straps should always be tight enough to protect the baby. To ensure that the straps do not cut into, press into or chafe the baby's skin, the straps on the baby seat should be covered with soft fabrics. Practical features The material of a good baby seat should be breathable so that your baby doesn't sweat. It should also be removable. Then you can simply wash it in the machine and it will stay fresh longer.Baby seats also have some useful extras such as sun shades, side pockets for diapers and other baby accessories or the option to attach pendants and other toys. To ensure that your baby is always nice and warm, you can equip the baby seat with a footmuff or blanket. It's best to buy a baby seat before things get serious If you buy the baby seat before the baby is born, you should choose a baby seat with a seat reducer. This way, your newborn will fit in the baby seat in any case, even if it is a premature baby or generally a little too small for the actual size of the baby seat. As an expectant mother or father, you should generally think about buying a baby seat before the birth. The newborn's first car ride is usually from the hospital to home. Then you should have a baby seat ready and not be left empty-handed or without car seats in the event of an unexpectedly early birth.which protects your baby's still unstable back. This will prevent it from being shaken around by bumps in the road. Note: Despite the necessary comfort, this position cannot be compared to lying completely flat in a stroller or on a bed. For this reason, you should limit the use of the baby seat for the car to car journeys and not make it the number one means of transport for your baby. Choose the right straps Before the journey, you must of course buckle your baby into the baby seat. A class 0+ baby seat (according to UN ECE Reg. 44/04) is designed for babies aged 0 to 18 months - your baby will grow quite a bit during this time. For this reason, the straps on the baby seat should be adjustable. The straps should always be tight enough to protect the baby. To ensure that the straps do not cut into, press into or chafe the baby's skin, the straps on the baby seat should be covered with soft fabrics. Practical features The material of a good baby seat should be breathable so that your baby doesn't sweat. It should also be removable. Then you can simply wash it in the machine and it will stay fresh longer.Baby seats also have some useful extras such as sun shades, side pockets for diapers and other baby accessories or the option to attach pendants and other toys. To ensure that your baby is always nice and warm, you can equip the baby seat with a footmuff or blanket. It's best to buy a baby seat before things get serious If you buy the baby seat before the baby is born, you should choose a baby seat with a seat reducer. This way, your newborn will fit in the baby seat in any case, even if it is a premature baby or generally a little too small for the actual size of the baby seat. As an expectant mother or father, you should generally think about buying a baby seat before the birth. The newborn's first car ride is usually from the hospital to home. Then you should have a baby seat ready and not be left empty-handed or without car seats in the event of an unexpectedly early birth.The straps should always be tight enough to protect the baby. To ensure that the straps do not cut into, press into or chafe the baby's skin, the straps of the baby seat should be covered with soft fabrics. Practical features The fabric of a good baby seat should be breathable so that your baby does not sweat. It should also be removable. Then you can simply wash it in the machine and it will stay fresh for longer. Baby seats also have some useful extras such as sun shades, side pockets for diapers and other baby accessories or the option to attach pendants and other toys. To ensure that your baby is always nice and warm, you can equip the baby seat with a footmuff or blanket. It is best to buy a baby seat before things get serious If you buy the baby seat before the baby is born, you should choose a baby seat with a seat reducer. This way, your newborn will always fit in the baby seat, even if it is a premature baby or generally a little too small for the actual size of the baby seat. As an expectant mother or father, you should generally think about buying a baby seat before the birth. The newborn's first car ride is usually from the hospital to home. Then you should have a baby seat ready and not be left empty-handed or without a car seat in the event of an unexpectedly early birth.The straps should always be tight enough to protect the baby. To ensure that the straps do not cut into, press into or chafe the baby's skin, the straps of the baby seat should be covered with soft fabrics. Practical features The fabric of a good baby seat should be breathable so that your baby does not sweat. It should also be removable. Then you can simply wash it in the machine and it will stay fresh for longer. Baby seats also have some useful extras such as sun shades, side pockets for diapers and other baby accessories or the option to attach pendants and other toys. To ensure that your baby is always nice and warm, you can equip the baby seat with a footmuff or blanket. It is best to buy a baby seat before things get serious If you buy the baby seat before the baby is born, you should choose a baby seat with a seat reducer. This way, your newborn will always fit in the baby seat, even if it is a premature baby or generally a little too small for the actual size of the baby seat. As an expectant mother or father, you should generally think about buying a baby seat before the birth. The newborn's first car ride is usually from the hospital to home. Then you should have a baby seat ready and not be left empty-handed or without a car seat in the event of an unexpectedly early birth."
Interior	Trunk trays/mats			"The trunk of a car is usually covered by a trunk mat, which has several functions. The most important is its anti-slip effect. Of course, you should also secure heavy loads with tensioning straps. The trunk mat also has a soundproofing and insulating effect. Since it is usually waterproof, wet boots or clothing can also be transported in the trunk without the moisture attacking the bodywork. It is also easy to remove and clean. Universal trunk mat made of rubber Trunk mats can be made of different materials. Rubber mats are particularly waterproof and can be wiped with a simple cloth. Textile mats are also usually impregnated and water-repellent. They give the car an attractive look and also feel better. However, stains can form if subjected to appropriate wear and tear. Trunk mats can become dirty and damaged, especially when transporting animals. We have suitable cleaning agents on offer for easy cleaning, but if you need a replacement, you can also buy a new trunk mat from kfzteile24."
Interior	Steering wheel covers (universal)			"Steering wheel covers are as varied as the tastes of drivers. They give the car an individual touch and help to conceal worn plastic. The inexpensive investment can therefore also contribute to increasing the value of a car. In addition to the visual aspect, the feel of steering wheel covers plays a particularly important role. They must be non-slip and non-slip and provide a pleasant feeling. This applies to all weather conditions, because while hands sweat in summer, fingers may freeze in winter. A steering wheel cover or steering wheel cover can help. Textile steering wheel covers Materials for steering wheel covers At kfzteile24 you can buy steering wheel covers made of fabric, leather and lambskin cheaply online, which differ significantly from one another in their properties. Fabric / textile Steering wheel covers made of fabric have a temperature-balancing effect, as they do not heat up as much in summer and create a feeling of warmth in winter. The surface structure is usually a little rougher than that of a plastic steering wheel in order to provide a secure grip. If the steering wheel turns back after being turned, this is particularly noticeable compared to a steering wheel without a cover. Steering wheel cover made of fabric leather Leather is elegant and hard-wearing and is a particularly pleasant material that is also often used for seats and furniture due to its properties. It is comfortable to hold, absorbs dirt and always remains grippy. Leather steering wheel covers are available in many different color combinations and are an easy way to beautify the interior of a car. Steering wheel cover made of leather lambskin Covers made of lambskin take a little getting used to as the feel is very different from other steering wheel covers. You have to grip through the fur and when you turn the steering wheel back you can often feel the fur even if you have already let go of the steering wheel. Similar to fabric, steering wheel covers made of lambskin have a temperature-balancing effect and offer a pleasant grip in summer and winter. Steering wheel cover made of lambskin Attaching steering wheel covers The steering wheel cover usually has a non-slip inside and is simply stretched over the grip surface. The steering wheel cover is finally secured with elastic bands on the sides. However, lacing is also a common fastening method, especially for leather covers. Similar to shoelaces, the steering wheel cover is firmly attached to the steering wheel by pulling force. This is a little more complicated, but the visual impression is usually phenomenal. No matter which steering wheel cover you choose, make sure that it fits tightly and cannot slip."
Interior	Window tinting & safety films			"What do you need to pay attention to when tinting windows? Tinted windows are popular because the dark glass surfaces on the vehicle have a mysterious effect and therefore attract a lot of attention. They also serve as glare protection and protect the interior of the vehicle from excessive heating. However, certain provisions of the Road Traffic Licensing Regulations apply to vehicle windows. These must be strictly adhered to for safety reasons, otherwise you risk a fine. Below we explain what changes you can make to your car's windows and what advantages tinting windows has. We also guide you step by step through the process of applying film to car windows. Why are windows tinted? Tinting windows offers a number of advantages, as the following list shows. Protection from heat Heat protection film can keep out up to 89% of infrared radiation. In summer, this means a difference of up to 9  C. Window tinting is therefore particularly suitable for people who transport children or pets in the vehicle. Pleasant temperatures also have a relaxing effect, so you can follow traffic more attentively. Protection against glare A reduction in the amount of light during the day and fewer glare effects and reflections at night ensure fatigue-free driving. Babies and small children can also suffer in strong brightness. A tinted rear window also protects the rear-view mirror from glare when driving at night. Protection against UV-A & UV-B rays Window tinting can reflect up to 99% of UV rays and thus protect against allergic reactions and skin cancer. Infants and small children in particular are sensitive and benefit from tinting film. Last but not least, the vehicle interior is also protected from fading. Protection against unwanted glances Tinted windows or film-coated windows offer good privacy. This prevents thieves from gaining unwanted insights into luggage or other valuables. Passengers can also enjoy more privacy. Renault with tinted windows Image: TuRbo_J @flickr.com (CC BY 2.0) Protection against splinters A film-coated window offers better protection against splinters in the event of violent impacts such as an impact. Because they stick to the film and don't fly around. The principle corresponds to the prescribed safety glass of the windscreen. Better appearance Tinted windows generally increase the value of a car. A vehicle with a dark rear looks elegant and sporty at the same time. The better overall visual impression is taken into account in the evaluation and also increases the resale value. Legal regulations - what is permitted? In general, not every possible change to a vehicle is permitted in Germany. If you want to darken your windows with tint film afterwards, you should know the applicable laws. You must, among other things,take into account paragraph 40, section 1 of the Road Traffic Licensing Regulations (StVZO). This states that windshields must be made of safety glass. In addition, windows must be ""clear, translucent and distortion-free."" A vehicle windshield normally consists of two panes of glass that are connected with a plastic film made of polyvinyl butyral. This is known as laminated glass. In the event of an accident, this means that there are no splinters, as only the pane breaks. The film holds splinters and shards together and the glass cannot fall into the vehicle interior. Tinting film supports this protective effect, but it must be ensured that the required visibility is always guaranteed. The film must therefore not be too dark or distort the view. In the event of a check, a fine of ten euros must be expected for excessive changes. The windshield and front side windows must never obstruct the driver's view. Therefore, tinting the front windows is also not permitted. It is not even permitted to apply transparent film to the windshield in the visible area, as possible bubbles or waves could endanger driving safety. This means that only the rear window and the rear side windows can be covered with film or with blackout film. A maximum of a glare strip of up to 10 cm wide is permitted on the windshield, which serves as sun protection. The part of the windshield covered with film must not be larger than 0.1 m  in total, including the vignettes. Instructions: Step by step to tinted windows If you want to equip your vehicle with dark windows, you can even apply the blackout films from kfzteile24.de yourself. Make sure that the tint film has an ABG (general type approval) and that the corresponding test number is visible after application. Therefore, be particularly careful when cutting the film. Painting or tinting car windows using a dipping process is not permitted, by the way. We recommend that you take a close look at the different tinting levels before buying. There are films that only tint slightly and reduce around 60% of the light and almost opaque films that filter out 90% of the light. Tinting film is usually rolled up in one piece, so that the fit for the window must first be cut to size. If possible, work in a clean hall and at temperatures above 10  C so that the water required can evaporate better later. Due to its size and curvature, the effort required to tint the rear window is the greatest and we would like to explain the work steps on it. The side windows are proceeded in the same way, although it is recommended thatcut the film a few centimeters larger, particularly at the bottom, so that no light streaks appear even when the window is completely closed. The tools you will need are a squeegee or a film board and a spray bottle with water and window cleaner. These utensils are often included with the film. A microfiber cloth is also necessary to get the window sparkling clean. Step 1: Cleaning the window Clean the window you are going to stick the film on thoroughly, inside and out. Every insect residue and every speck of dust can later affect the result. Use a commercially available window cleaner and a microfiber cloth to wipe it off. Step 2: Shrinking with hot air and cutting the film The tint film must be cut to fit the window. You can do this either generously directly on the outside of the window or more simply on a base after roughly measuring the window. There are several techniques conceivable for fine cutting, but the easiest is to spray the window from the outside and place the roughly cut film on top. It must be aligned so that the entire inside of the window is covered. Now use the squeegee to create a large ""H"" in the film from the middle. Depending on the curvature of the window, wrinkles will form. These wrinkles must always be vertical and are worked out using the hot air dryer and the squeegee. Heat the wrinkle from the middle and push it outwards from the right and left along the vertical. This can create smaller wrinkles, which are removed in the same way. Be careful not to burn the film. This step is time-consuming and requires feeling and ideally a bit of practice, but in the end the tint film will lie flat on the outside of the window. Now the fine cutting can be done with a sharp cutter knife. Cut the film approx. 3-4 mm larger than the visible area of ??the window so that no gaps in the light appear later. The blade is placed flat and guided with little pressure. This will prevent scratches in the glass. Step 3: Spray the windows Wet the cleaned window from the inside and then peel the protective film off the adhesive surface of the tint film. You should also spray this side thoroughly to make it easier to work on. Depending on the size of the window, it is advisable to work in pairs. Step 4: Apply the film Place the film roughly on the inside of the window and spray the outside of the tint film again with the assembly mixture to make it easier to squeegee it off. Start by fixing it in the middle of the window in a similar way to cutting it and then work your way outwards to the wheels. Due to the assembly agent, small wrinkles can form there, which can be removed if necessary.carefully removed again with a hot air dryer. Step 5: Allow to dry It can take up to three weeks for the film to dry completely. Do not wash your windows during this time to avoid the risk of slipping or even damage. With some films it is possible to speed up the drying process by using a hair dryer."
Interior	Seat covers / seat cushions (universal)			"Seat covers: A fresh look for your car You no longer like the original seat covers of your car or they are worn out? No problem: Seat covers in the car can usually be replaced without any problem - or you can simply put new, attractive covers over the original ones. With new protective covers for your seats, you can upgrade the interior of your car with little effort. You can also give your interior a new coat of paint straight away - because seat covers are available in many different colors, patterns and materials. Protect your seats and maintain the value of your car Seat covers not only look good - they also protect your original seats. Many original seat covers are very sensitive due to their material or workmanship. It can happen that even a normal pair of jeans leaves stains that you can no longer remove. Such blemishes naturally reduce the value of the vehicle. If you want to be sure that your original seat covers are not damaged, you can protect them easily and effectively with protective covers. Seat covers are particularly recommended for dog owners. This is especially true with regard to resale value - dog cars are not particularly popular on the used car market. It is therefore all the more important that the seats are in perfect condition when sold and do not smell unpleasant. With protective covers, your dog can ride in the car without you having to worry about the value of your vehicle. Protective covers also make sense, especially for leased cars. This way you avoid having to pay for the wear and tear on the original seats when you return the car. Buying seat covers for your car: What do I have to look out for? Before you buy seat covers for your car, you should be clear about what type of seat cover you need - and which ones you like best. And: Not every seat cover is suitable for every car. That's why you should consider a few things when buying: Side airbags & seat covers - does it work? Safety first! First, you should check whether your vehicle has side airbags. If so, you should definitely buy seat covers that are compatible with side airbags. As a rule, you can use seat covers with side airbags without any problems, but there are a few exceptions. Some seat covers can affect the functionality of side airbags. When buying seat covers, just look for the additional note ?Also suitable for vehicles with side airbags.? This is the only way to ensure that the side airbag can also deploy through the seat cover. The look: Which seat cover looks best? Seat covers are available in countless colors, with different patterns and made from a wide variety of materials. Which one you ultimately choose depends primarily on your personal taste.Do you like a sporty look? Seat covers with red or blue elements are perfect for this. Do you want to give your interior an elegant look? Then classic, plain black covers are a good choice. If your vehicle interior already has brown elements, seat covers in shades of brown or beige are probably the best choice. Do you like it colorful, eye-catching and unusual? Then seat covers with wild patterns, circles or dots are probably the right choice for you. Wooden ball seat covers: comfortable and healthy seating If you want to take care of your health when driving, you should think about wooden ball seat covers. These are not classic covers (they are not pulled completely over the seat, but simply placed on top and secured in such a way that they cannot slip away) - but with seat covers with wooden balls, the focus is not on protecting the seat or the look. Instead, they are intended to be particularly healthy and comfortable for the occupants. Wooden ball seat covers consist - as the name suggests - of countless small wooden balls. They provide a kind of massage function when driving. They also promote blood circulation and enable active air circulation between the body and the seat. Perfect for anyone who cares about their health - and who wants to do something good for their body when driving. Seat covers for vans Since seats in vans are often shaped a little differently than in cars, there are also special seat covers for them. One special feature of vans, for example, is that they often have three seats in the front. A single seat behind the steering wheel and a bench seat for two passengers. You can also easily protect van seats with seat covers. And this is where it is particularly worthwhile - because vans are often subjected to particular stresses. If they are used for manual work, the interior is usually also subjected to a lot of wear and tear. In daily use, the original seats can be damaged by, for example, trousers with zippers, tools and dirty clothing. It is therefore not surprising that the seat covers of many vans look unsightly after just a short time. In order to maintain the condition of the seats, it is best to put on seat covers as a precaution. Attaching seat covers Attaching seat covers is very easy: Universal seat covers fit in almost every car and are simply pulled over the original covers. You don't even have to remove the old covers. And here's how it works: To fit the new seat covers, first remove the headrests. Simply pull the covers over the backrest and align them so that they adapt to the shape of your seats. Then put the headrests back on. The seat covers are now fitted. Seat covers usually also have elastic bands so that they don't slip after they have been put on. Cleaning seat covers:How to clean dirty seat covers In daily use, it is almost impossible to keep the seats in your car perfectly clean all the time. However, you can easily remove coarser dirt with a vacuum cleaner or a brush. Is the seat cover stained? Then try using a damp cloth or sponge or a special interior cleaner. If that doesn't help, retrofitted seat covers have another decisive advantage over the original covers: Most of them can be washed at 30 degrees on the gentle cycle in the washing machine. To be on the safe side, however, you should check the care label on the covers again before throwing them in the washing machine. Then you can simply let them dry on the clothes rack - and the seat covers will look like new again. Seat covers in the car: The most important things in brief Seat covers not only look good - they also protect the seats in the car. If your car has side airbags, the seat covers must also be compatible with them. Seat covers are available in countless colors and patterns. There is something for every taste. Wooden ball seat covers promote blood circulation and ensure active air circulation. Attaching seat covers is usually easy and uncomplicated: they are simply pulled over the original seat covers. In contrast to sensitive original seat covers, most seat covers can be washed in the washing machine."
Interior	Sun visor			"Sun protection plays an important role in your car for several reasons. Firstly, sun visors prevent the vehicle from heating up more than necessary. This simple measure saves energy because the air conditioning system has to work less. On the other hand, sun visors can also serve as privacy and glare protection. Children in particular are effectively protected from too intense sunlight in this way. Sun visors also have the advantage over window tinting or window film that they are usually removable and can be removed in autumn and winter when the sun is low. Sun visor for the car from Kamei Attaching sun visors In our shop you will find sun visors from Kamei that simply need to be clipped in and can also be used when the window is open. They consist of a frame made of spring steel wire covered with a flame-retardant polyester fabric. The sun visor retaining clips are simply attached and can be removed again with little effort. This means that the sun protection can also be easily dismantled and washed."
body	body			"Body in brief The term body refers to the vehicle structure, which in cars is usually connected to the frame in a load-bearing or self-supporting design. The main task of the body is to protect the occupants and the load from environmental influences and to ensure safety in the event of an accident. In addition, it fulfills a load-bearing function for the chassis and drive. What belongs to the body The body of a modern car is a complex network of different components that are either welded to a self-supporting floor assembly in a shell or framework design or are connected to a frame as a complete attachment. The body parts that you can buy from our online shop are mounted on this basic framework of the car. The range includes mirrors, gas springs, radiator grilles, bumpers and trim strips. But you can also find fenders, license plate holders and wind deflectors at kfzteile24. Body parts do not only have to be functional, they should also generally look stylish. We work with well-known brand manufacturers to ensure that quality and design come together. We offer parts from febi bilstein, Blue Print or f.becker_line, which are supplemented by specialists such as Alkar in the area of ??exterior mirrors, ClimAir in the area of ??wind deflectors and sunroofs and Foliatec and raidhp in the area of ??paints and films. You can also find products from Kamei, Monroe, JOM or EAL with us. Sports grill for BMW E38 bull bar Materials in body construction One requirement for the body is that it be as light as possible, which is why steel sheets and aluminum sheets are used in particular, which are supplemented by plastics. The thickness of the sheets and their tensile strength depend crucially on the area of ??application. For example, A or B pillars are made of high-strength steel sheets, which have a yield strength of up to 1300 N/mm  and make a decisive contribution to stiffening the body. The sheets are often galvanized for corrosion protection reasons. Aluminium alloys are used for lattice frames, bonnets or fenders, but highly stressed cast parts are also made from aluminium using the die-casting process. However, unlike pressed parts, these cannot be reshaped after an accident and must be replaced if necessary. Safety function of the body The body, its individual parts and the materials used have a direct influence on the safety of the occupants and the load. Active and passive features can be distinguished here. Active safety The active safety of the body is a result of the design and serves to prevent accidents. It can be divided into driving safety, perception safety, physical condition safety and operating safety. This includes, for example, neutral driving behaviour, precise steering, large heated windows and dimmable rear-view mirrors.but also an ergonomic arrangement of all controls, as well as comfortable suspension and a functioning air conditioning system. Passive safety If an accident occurs, neither people inside nor outside the car should be harmed. The body must therefore be able to absorb and convert energy through appropriate deformation. Impact protection measures such as airbags and seat belts as well as rigid passenger cells, leak-proof fuel tanks or safety windows are also part of the safety concept. Which parts have been deformed in an accident also determines whether repair or replacement is advisable. Repair and replacement In an impact, the body converts kinetic energy by deforming the metal sheets and frames. Compression, stretching, bending, twisting or kinking occur, which are first measured. The affected parts can be straightened using pulling or pushing tools, but only if no load-bearing parts are affected and the manufacturer allows this. Severely deformed areas, on the other hand, are completely replaced as part of a partial replacement if reconditioning the car is still an option. Of course, the manufacturer's specifications must be observed here too. Pure surface work such as removing dents from hoods or doors is usually unproblematic and can be repaired by experienced specialists using a hammer, pry bar and counterholders. The smart repair approach can save a lot of money on simple dents in bodywork parts.Dents in hoods or doors are usually not a problem and can be repaired by experienced specialists using a hammer, pry bar and counterholders. The smart repair approach can save a lot of money on simple dents in bodywork parts.Dents in hoods or doors are usually not a problem and can be repaired by experienced specialists using a hammer, pry bar and counterholders. The smart repair approach can save a lot of money on simple dents in bodywork parts."
body	Mount/Carrier/Frame			"When retrofitting fog lights in particular, a corresponding cover is required so that they can be used. Headlight covers are usually made of durable plastic that is also easy to wash off, while chrome-plated frames for the main headlights are a classy detail on the car and create subtle highlights. The range is completed by supports and mounts. These are pre-formed metal sheets that are mounted on the body so that the headlight can then be attached. Please note the installation side for all parts."
body	Design slides			"To be able to wrap a car, you obviously need the right film. At kfzteile24 you can buy carbon film, paint protection film, matt film and sticker film cheaply online. The UV and weather-resistant styling films are suitable for both indoor and outdoor use and set clear visual accents. There are no limits to customization. Carbon film gives the car character and ensures an incomparable look. It doesn't necessarily have to be black or anthracite, because in our shop you can also find carbon film in white, orange or pink. High-quality carbon film is even impressive to the touch thanks to a tangible 3D surface structure. If you like something even more unusual, stick racing stripes or stars on your car. Carbon film gives the car a classy look pink carbon film orange carbon film white carbon film Buy stars or racing stripes for even more individuality Optimum protection with the right paint protection film Of course, aesthetic aspects play a major role when wrapping cars, but paint protection film can also be used to protect vulnerable vehicle parts against stone chips, insect dirt and unsightly scratches. The transparent film is simply applied to the bumper, bonnet or loading sills and offers effective protection against the stresses of everyday life. This inexpensive precautionary measure prevents expensive paint repairs."
body	Door sills & loading sill protection			"Painted parts of the body must be treated with care to ensure that they look good for a long time. However, signs of wear are unavoidable, particularly in the entry area and on the loading sill of the trunk. One careless movement or a bulky and heavy load is enough for a scratch to occur. To minimize this risk, you can buy metal entry sills and high-quality loading sill protection strips for the bumper. They are easy to care for and are usually simply stuck on using pre-mounted adhesive strips. The protection strips are of course weatherproof and promise effective protection. Depending on your preference, the color of the loading sill protection either blends in harmoniously or sets a subtle highlight."
body	Passenger cell			"The passenger cell is the part of the body of a car in which the passengers sit. The safety requirements are accordingly high. In contrast to the crumple zones, the passenger cell must not deform in the event of an accident and serves as a safety cage for the occupants. The space is formed by the underbody or the floor assembly and the roof with the supporting vehicle pillars in between. In convertibles without a roof, a roll bar usually ensures safety, as otherwise a vehicle rolling over could crush the passengers. Even in tuned vehicles, metal structures stabilize the roof so that the passenger cell is not compressed in the event of a rollover. Side walls and doors limit the passenger cell at the sides. You can buy the corresponding parts cheaply online from nus. In our online shop you will find cheap door pillars, entrances, decorative and protective strips, underbodies, side walls and individual door parts such as hinges or seals."
body	Passenger cell	Roof/door pillars/frames		"The body forms the frame of a car, which also partly represents the basic structure to which all units and components are attached. Depending on the design of the vehicle, additional frames are required to be able to install doors, roofs or windows, which in turn are connected to the body. Similar to body construction, steel or sheet steel but also light metals such as aluminum are common for door frames or windscreen frames. Of course, when buying, it is not only important to choose the right car, but also to pay attention to the installation side, which is always specified from the driver's perspective."
body	Passenger cell	Entry/door post		"Replacing body parts such as the sill plate is always necessary when the ravages of time have left their mark. Corrosion is a major problem, particularly in older cars. Once rust has set in, it is usually not possible to stop it, but rather to delay its destruction. To avoid major body damage, we therefore recommend replacing rusting sill plates promptly. Of course, replacing them is also advisable if mechanical damage has occurred. Parking bumps and accidents that damage running boards and sill plates are common reasons why replacement is necessary. In this case, however, have the car examined by a specialist."
body	Passenger cell	Entry/door post	Decorative/protective strips	"For some, a trim strip only serves a visual function. It sets boundaries, sets accents and can therefore visually support the design of a car. When used as a stylistic element, trim strips are usually not noticed, but their importance is only recognized when they are missing or when they are worn and porous. But in addition to being a pleasant feature, they also serve an additional function, as they protect the edges of the door or side wall from damage. This means that the paintwork remains intact even if it is touched lightly and chipping is avoided. For this reason, trim strips are also known as protective strips."
body	Passenger cell	Body floor/underbody		"Thanks to new materials and manufacturing processes, modern cars are much better protected against corrosion than was the case in the 20th century. However, if you own a classic car such as a VW Golf III or even a VW Beetle, you have to declare war on rust. Perhaps you are also planning to restore such a collector's car, then you will find the right parts at kfzteile24. For example, we have new repair panels for the bodywork floor on offer. You can usually only get corresponding parts used from the scrap yard. Bodywork floor for a VW Beetle Why does the underbody rust? Rust occurs when iron or steel oxidizes in the presence of water. This is a completely natural and irreversible process. Rust can only be stopped if the oxidation is suppressed. This can be done, for example, by an oxide layer such as that found on chrome, aluminum or zinc. Rusting iron metals, on the other hand, require an appropriate protective coating. Manufacturers have now started to produce the bodywork from stainless metals and to cover particularly vulnerable components in the splash water area with underbody protection."
body	Passenger cell	Side wall		"Body parts such as the side panels of a car always have to be replaced when there has been an accident and the part has been mechanically damaged or when corrosion makes replacement necessary. In order to delay this completely natural process as long as possible, body parts are increasingly being made from rust-proof metals, but steel sheets are still used. They are inexpensive and, with appropriate surface treatment, also have a long service life. In addition, the wheel house lining helps to keep splash water away from the side panel. Side panel for a Ford Replacing a defective side panel If the side panel of your car needs to be replaced, you should contact a specialist. This work is not usually offered by every workshop, but is the job of body builders. Depending on the damage, the expert will also tell you whether the replacement is worthwhile. To ensure that this is the case if possible, you can buy inexpensive side panels from kfzteile24. The repair panels are usually painted in the color of the car after installation. The paint is not only for the appearance, but also prevents corrosion."
body	Passenger cell	Doors/parts		"Car doors are an important part of a vehicle, but people don't usually think about them. Unless scissor or wing doors are used, they are usually mounted at the front in corresponding door hinges and open at the back. Vintage cars and some modern vehicles use so-called ""suicide doors"" that are hinged at the back and open at the front. They are generally prohibited in Germany, but can be granted an operating license with appropriate security measures. At kfzteile24 we offer you a large selection of inexpensive parts for your car door. Roller guide for a side door - VW Transporter T4 Large selection of individual parts for car doors Are you looking for a door hinge for your Opel Corsa or a roller guide for the sliding door of a VW Transporter? You will find the right parts with us. We also have assembly kits or door stops on offer so that your car door closes cleanly and can be opened easily again. If you have problems with water penetrating, we recommend that you act promptly to avoid corrosion damage to the bodywork. You can also buy the corresponding door seals cheaply at kfzteile24. If the rust has already spread far or if an accident has made it necessary to replace the entire door, we also offer these in our online shop."
body	Vehicle front			"The front of a vehicle is the front part of a car. Distinctive body parts of the front are the bonnet, the radiator grille, the bumper, as well as the fenders and wheel houses. At kfzteile24 you will also find gas springs and headlight covers, among other things. The design of the front of a vehicle determines the appearance of a car to a large extent. Headlights, radiator grilles and bumpers can trigger an emotional reaction and are also referred to as the ""face"" of a car. Elongated headlights convey grim determination and suit powerful vehicles, while round versions stand for openness and joie de vivre and are often installed in small cars. When buying parts for the front of a vehicle at kfzteile24, however, you do not have to be guided by emotions, because there are many rational reasons that speak for us."
body	Vehicle front	Individual parts/attachments		"There are numerous parts that are installed on the body. They all fulfill a specific function and need to be replaced from time to time. At kfzteile24 you have a correspondingly large selection and can buy different individual parts such as gas springs or radiator grilles, which are also available in particularly impressive versions known as sports grills. A battery holder also has little in common with a protective strip or a cover cap. But what all of these parts have in common is that you can order them particularly cheaply from kfzteile24 and at the same time rely on high quality."
body	Vehicle front	Individual parts/attachments	Covers/Caps	"Even if not every component of a car is as important as the battery, for example, they still fulfill a certain function. In the case of covers, caps and flaps, for example, components are protected from external influences. Fortunately, a tow hook is rarely needed and can therefore be elegantly covered with a corresponding flap. This looks better and even fulfills a protective function. Aggressive environmental influences such as salt in winter or dirty water could otherwise accelerate corrosion. Flaps and covers are inexpensive and can usually be replaced without specialist knowledge. So do not hesitate to replace defective parts."
body	Vehicle front	Individual parts/attachments	Mount/Carrier/Frame	"The headlights of a car have to meet numerous technical requirements, but at the same time characterize the vehicle. Due to their placement, they are reminiscent of the eyes of a human face and are firmly attached to the body. Depending on the manufacturer and vehicle, mounts or frames are used that serve as corresponding fastening points. They are usually made of hard plastic or coated sheet metal to avoid damage from corrosion as far as possible. Headlight mount installation side When purchasing frames, covers and mounts for the various headlights, the installation side must be taken into account, whereby this is always specified from the driver's perspective in the direction of travel. A frame for the left headlight side is therefore intended for the driver's side. A right headlight mount or cover fits on the passenger side in the same way. The change or replacement can usually be carried out by a layperson, although the cars differ greatly in terms of the accessibility of the fastening screws. However, the headlights must then be adjusted in a workshop using appropriate equipment in order to achieve optimal illumination without dazzling oncoming traffic."
body	Vehicle front	Individual parts/attachments	Battery holder	"The battery is one of the most important components of a modern car and, especially with wet batteries, the correct fastening is of crucial importance. A battery holder fixes the accumulator so that it does not slip and the acidic electrolyte solution does not leak out. Vibrations and impacts caused by driving can also damage the battery, as the tightly packed electrode plates can come loose. A secure, immovable position, even during dynamic driving maneuvers, therefore protects the battery. Battery holders are usually screwed to the body of a vehicle."
body	Vehicle front	Individual parts/attachments	Gas springs	"At kfzteile24 you will also find gas springs as part of the bodywork, which function pneumatically and are filled with a gas. The high-pressure gas has a spring force that is used in cars, especially on the trunk lid and the hood. The gas spring always consists of a pressure tube and a piston rod with a piston. The gas on both sides of the piston is usually nitrogen. The gas can switch from one side to the other through a small opening in the piston itself, with the cross-section of the piston hole determining the degree of damping. If the piston rod is pressed into the cylinder, its own volume takes up space for the gas. However, the gas cannot escape, so the pressure inside the cylinder increases. This change in pressure creates the restoring force that pushes the push rod back out of the cylinder - like an office chair that slides up a little as soon as you stand up. The principle is used in tailgate dampers or dampers for the hood, among other things. Under no circumstances should a layperson open the pressure cylinder of a defective gas spring, as there is a considerable risk of injury."
body	Vehicle front	Individual parts/attachments	Radiator mounting	"The radiator support or radiator mount is a prefabricated part of the bodywork that provides attachment points for the radiator. The radiator support usually has a correspondingly elongated shape and, depending on the vehicle, can sometimes also contain the mount for the headlights. The radiator grille is sometimes also attached to the radiator mount, which is why it is also called a module support. Depending on the vehicle's design, different materials are used for the radiator mount. As a rule, sheet metal parts made of aluminum are used, although plastic is also used, particularly in light small cars. The radiator mount only has to be able to hold the radiator and hold it in a stable position while driving. It must neither sag nor bend."
body	Vehicle front	Individual parts/attachments	License plate plate/holder	"A vehicle identification is the individual identification of a car assigned by a traffic authority. In Germany, the alphanumeric identification of a vehicle is called a license plate. In the past, it was also called an ""official license plate"" or ""police license plate"". The plate on which the license plate is attached is called a license plate. The terms are usually used colloquially as synonyms and the terms license plate, number plate or car number are also common. The linguistic confusion does not change the fact that every motor vehicle in Germany needs a license plate in order to be allowed to take part in road traffic. The associated license plates are standardized and must be attached to cars in a clearly visible place. They are usually made of durable plastic and are only replaced if parts of the plastic break off when the license plate is changed. License plate holder The meaning and purpose of the license plate The license plate signals that the vehicle has been approved for road traffic and has been properly registered. Mandatory liability insurance is in place and the vehicle owner can be identified in the event of traffic violations. It was made compulsory at the beginning of the 20th century because the number of hit-and-run accidents was increasing due to the increase in private transport. However, the license plate allows any witness to identify a vehicle precisely, so that hit-and-run is no longer a reasonable option due to the impending consequences."
body	Vehicle front	Individual parts/attachments	Sports grill	"A sports grille is a special type of radiator grille that creates a dynamic appearance thanks to its shape and honeycomb structure. The radiator grille was originally designed to protect the radiator behind it from dirt and damage. The radiator grille reduces the risk of stones and branches penetrating the radiator and causing leaks in the cooling system. Dirt such as leaves is also kept away from the radiator so that the clean cooling fins can better transfer the heat from the coolant to the surrounding air. In modern cars, the radiator grille is mainly relevant as part of the vehicle design and its shape shapes the appearance of a car. As a decorative element, it is the outstanding feature of the front section, together with the headlights, and is in the area of ??tension between ideal aerodynamics, optimal cooling air intake and a stylish appearance. Sports grille by Kamei From radiator grille to sports grille The radiator grille has been getting bigger and bigger for several years and gives cars a beefy and powerful appearance. Since the vehicles are usually driven in a sporty manner, they are then referred to as sports grills. The disadvantage of large grilles, however, is that they cause turbulence in the air flow, which reduces the drag coefficient and increases fuel consumption. This problem is partly solved by flaps that are attached to the sports grille and close at high speeds."
body	Vehicle front	Individual parts/attachments	Fairing/Grill	"The radiator grille originally served to protect the radiator by preventing stones and branches from piercing the radiator wall and causing leaks in the coolant system. Nowadays, the panel, also known as the radiator grille, is more of a decorative element that represents the distinctiveness of the car brand through its appearance. For example, BMW, Audi and Alfa Romeo are easily recognizable by their radiator grille even without a logo. Together with the headlights, it shapes the image of the front section and gives the car an individual face. Radiator grilles have been getting larger for some time now because they give the vehicle a beefy, powerful appearance. However, the powerful appearance comes at the expense of fuel consumption because the drag coefficient increases due to air turbulence. Radiator grille of a VW Golf II Radiator grille of a Mercedes-Benz A-Class Changing the radiator grille The radiator grille is usually attached to a bracket or frame and is simply screwed on. Because the front panel is easy to change, damaged radiator grilles can usually be replaced without any problem. Changing to a particularly attractive sports grill is also a quick and easy way to spice up the visual appearance of the car and is therefore very popular with tuning fans. If the grille was damaged in a rear-end collision, however, you should visit a specialist workshop so that the chassis geometry can be looked at. The workshop will also be able to determine whether other parts need to be replaced."
body	Vehicle front	Individual parts/attachments	Decorative/protective strips	"Not every car part is as important for driving as the brakes, for example. Trim strips, for example, simply look good. They accentuate an area and complete the overall impression of a car. However, since for many owners the car is more than just a commodity and satisfies emotional needs, trim strips also have an important place in our range. Recognition and self-affirmation are not the only reasons for installing trim strips. They often also have a protective function and are therefore also referred to as protective strips. A plastic bumper prevents everyday bumps from immediately causing paint damage to the bodywork. They are also usually black so that any scratches in the plastic are hardly noticeable. Headlight strip The right trim and protective strips for your vehicle In addition to bumpers, we also offer headlight strips or protective strip sets for the radiator grille. Depending on the vehicle, they are also partially chrome-plated and thus give the vehicle a particularly elegant appearance. Of course, the visual finesse is in the foreground, because any damage is clearly visible on the reflective surface. Finally, we also offer protective strips for the fender, which protect the exposed edge from stone chips and thus prevent rust. The highlighted wheels also make the car look much more powerful."
body	Vehicle rear			"In the same way as with the front of the vehicle, we have also grouped together suitable parts of the bodywork for the rear of the vehicle. This of course includes the trunk lid and tailgates, bumpers and panels, side walls and fuel tanks. You can also find holders for the license plate and decorative/protective strips in our online shop. The shape of the rear is often determined by the size of the vehicle and its intended use. It is also subject to fashion trends. For example, steep rears and short hatchbacks are always suitable when as much space as possible is required. In the case of a notchback, on the other hand, the rear window and trunk lid form a clearly visible step. Together with the engine compartment, the notchback results in a clearly visible division of the car into thirds with the passenger cell in the middle. VW Golf with steep hatchback Typical rear shapes of modern cars Notchback The Ford A Coup  from 1929 already had a notchback, but the triumph of this rear shape began after the Second World War. The tailgate, which runs almost horizontally when closed, forms a visible step together with the rear window towards the roof. The trunk is usually not connected to the rear. For aesthetic reasons, the rear windows of notchbacks are now becoming much flatter and the trunk lid shorter. Notchbacks are mainly used in mid-range cars and sedans. Hatchbacks The hatchback, also called a fastback, has a constant slope that leads from the roof to the rear bumper. Depending on the angle chosen, a hatchback can either express a particular sportiness or enlarge the interior and thus the loading options. If the rear is particularly flat, it is called a fastback, while in the compact class the focus is on using the space. If the rear window is part of the tailgate, it is called a liftback. By folding down the rear seats, even short trunks can be used very well. The VW Golf is representative of this type of vehicle rear. Hatchbacks Hatchbacks optimize the amount of space available, particularly in small cars such as the Smart. Hatchbacks are also used in large station wagons and vans to increase the load capacity or to use the space gained to accommodate an additional bench seat. Cars with hatchbacks are therefore particularly popular with larger families. The disadvantage of hatchbacks is the braking air vortex that can form behind the vehicle, thereby increasing energy consumption. However, steps and hatchbacks are not optimized for energy efficiency from an optical point of view. Rear wall of a VW Golf 2 The transitions between the individual rear shapes are naturally fluid. After the hatchback was established in the compact class, the classic notchback gave way to a hybrid form known as a stubby tail.The tailgate is hinged above the rear window, as in the hatchback, but a short horizontal line indicates the trunk.
"
body	Vehicle rear	Individual parts/attachments	Covers/Caps	"Fortunately, a car's tow hook is rarely needed. To ensure that it is not exposed to the elements and does not spoil the overall visual impression, it is often hidden behind a cover. After the flap has been opened, the tow rope or tow bar can be hooked in. After towing, you should close the flap again to prevent dirt from accumulating. The cover is usually made of plastic painted in the color of the car and is held in place by a lock that prevents it from opening or being torn off while driving."
body	Vehicle rear	Individual parts/attachments	License plate plate/holder	"A license plate can be used to clearly identify a car and determine its owner. For this reason, license plates were made compulsory at the beginning of the 20th century. The increasing volume of automobile traffic and the rising number of accidents made it necessary to put a stop to the rampant hit-and-run accidents. The standardized alphanumeric identification, which can be easily seen at any time thanks to the license plates, also makes it easier to sanction violations of applicable traffic regulations. The license plate is fixed in place using a license plate holder, which is available both as a license plate holder for the front of the vehicle and for the rear. Holder for the license plate The license plate holder The license plate holder is also known as a license plate holder or license plate holder and is usually made of plastic. The lightweight plastic part is screwed onto the bumper or tailgate and has a holding mechanism into which the license plate can be clamped. If the license plate holder is not touched, it usually lasts the life of the car. However, it is not uncommon for plastic parts to break off when changing the license plate."
body	Vehicle rear	Individual parts/attachments	Decorative/protective strips	"In hectic everyday life, minor contact and jostling can occur. In tight parking spaces, even opening the door quickly can cause minor damage. However, to ensure that not every scratch in the paintwork becomes permanent, protective strips are very popular. They are usually made of plastic, serve as spacers and protect the respective body part at common impact points. The protective strips can also be used for visual accentuation, which is why they are also called decorative strips. Protective strip for a fender Difference between decorative strips and protective strips Depending on the location, decorative strips are either glued, inserted, clamped or screwed. Installation is usually very simple and can even be carried out by laypeople. The difference between decorative strips and protective strips is of course fluid, but black strips are usually referred to as protective strips. The color makes grooves and scratches less noticeable, while chrome-plated or colored strips are used as visual highlights. There are decorative and protective strips for the bumper, the fender, the side wall or the tailgate, for example."
body	Vehicle rear	Rear door/parts		"Cars usually have access to the rear of the vehicle. Depending on the type of vehicle and the shape of the rear, these flaps, lids or doors are given different names. In saloons with a notchback, the body part is called the trunk lid or rear lid, for example, while cars with a hatchback have a rear door. In vans, this is usually referred to as a rear door. They are hinged on the side and allow for easy loading. Some station wagons also have double-leaf rear doors. Door stays from febi bilstein Door stays and gas pressure springs Gas pressure springs are often used to ensure that the rear door, tailgate or trunk lid remains open when loading. They counteract the force of gravity so that your hands remain free. Door stays have the same function, but they work mechanically instead of with gas pressure. They are mainly used for trunk lids and are usually much shorter. Replacing them is extremely easy and only requires a little manual skill."
body	Vehicle rear	Body floor/underbody		"The entire body floor of a vehicle is exposed to the elements. Water, dirt, mud, road salt and sand are thrown up by the wheels and collect on the underbody over time. Every small crack and every bulge can therefore become the starting point for progressive rust damage, because the corrosion load is correspondingly high. As soon as the protective coating is worn away, the rust can eat through the body floor and in most cases can no longer be stopped. It is better to replace the affected parts. At kfzteile24 you will also find body floors for the trunk or loading area. The sheets are simply replaced and screwed on. Body floor for the loading area Corrosion is a natural process The reaction of a material with its environment is a completely natural process, with the oxidation of iron, i.e. rusting, being the best known form of chemical corrosion. Rust is therefore often used as a synonym for corrosion. But corrosion can also be caused by living things. Fungi, lichens and other microorganisms decompose building materials and metals using acids and salts. The process can be slowed down but not reversed by appropriate coatings."
body	Vehicle rear	Trunk/cargo area lid/cover		"The trunk lid, sometimes also called the load compartment lid, opens and closes the storage space of a car. It is usually located at the rear of the vehicle because most modern cars have a front engine. The term used often varies depending on the size of the opening. For example, the load compartment lids of a notchback saloon are usually referred to as trunk lids, while vans and station wagons are referred to as trunk lids or rear doors. Load compartment lid of a VW Transporter Replacing the load compartment lid If you have found and ordered a suitable load compartment lid for your car, you can usually replace it yourself. A visit to a workshop is not absolutely necessary. When buying, pay attention to the installation side, which is always specified from the driver's perspective. With rear doors, you should also note that there may be an upper and a lower area. The load compartment lid is usually simply screwed on."
body	Vehicle rear	Fuel tank/components		"The fuel tank, often called a tank, contains the fuel needed to run the vehicle. This is usually petrol or diesel, but gas is also being used more and more. They can be made of sheet steel or plastic, with each material having different advantages and disadvantages. Sheet steel is prone to corrosion and must therefore be coated with a suitable protective layer. The tank is also heavier than its plastic counterpart. On the other hand, very few hydrocarbons evaporate through the material, making it easier to comply with legal limits. In order to be classified as a low-emission vehicle (LEV) in the USA, for example, a maximum of 2g/day of evaporation losses in the fuel system may occur. Fuel tank of an Opel Corsa Cutaway model of fuel tank Cschirp @wikimedia.org (CC BY-SA 3.0) Plastic fuel tank Plastic, on the other hand, has the advantage of being particularly light in weight and easy to manufacture. This means that even the most complicated shapes can be produced and the available space can be used ideally. They also offer a high level of protection against bursting and must withstand crashes of 80 km/h. However, they are sensitive to heat and can deform at temperatures of over 120  C. The diffusion of fuel vapors through the plastic is also a problem, so plastic fuel tanks are usually constructed in several layers. The outer layer is black and light-resistant, while the inner layer is optimized for gas-tightness. Special features in the construction of fuel tanks The fuel tank is usually not a continuous tank, but is divided into several small spaces by perforated partitions. This prevents all the fuel from flowing to one side in fast corners and causing a weight shift. Depending on how full the tank is, corresponding driving maneuvers could also cause the fuel pump to suck in air. To prevent this, catch tanks are used, which are essentially a tank inside the fuel tank. Suction jet pumps pump the fuel into the catch tank, where the fuel pump is located. This system also allows all branched chambers of a fuel tank to be emptied."
body	Vehicle rear	Wheelhouse		"The wheels of a car rotate in the wheel house or wheel arch so that they do not protrude beyond the body and endanger pedestrians and cyclists. The rotation not only moves the car, but also accelerates loose elements of the ground against the direction of travel. Stones, dirt and water in particular fly backwards. The job of the wheel house is to catch these elements so that they do not affect other road users. To support this, the side wall of the body usually also has fenders. Wheel house cladding for a VW Golf IV The purpose of the wheel house cladding Since the wheel house regularly comes into contact with water and dirt, and corrosion damage would be the inevitable result, it is protected by a wheel house cladding. It is usually made of plastic and has a protective function. The plastic is corrosion-resistant to salts and acids, but can break or tear. If your wheel house cladding is damaged, it is time for a change. The part can be replaced relatively easily and is much cheaper than accepting rust damage to the body."
body	Vehicle rear	Spare wheel tray		"The spare wheel of a VW Beetle is carried in the spare wheel well in the front of the vehicle. Since the spare tire is usually stored in the trunk of modern cars, we have decided to offer the spare wheel well in the rear of the vehicle as well. It is of course installed at the front, as the rear engine of the Beetle does not allow the spare wheel to be transported at the rear. Replace the sheet metal if you notice signs of corrosion. The replacement is easy and can even be carried out by a layperson."
body	Vehicle rear	Side wall		"The sidewalls are the body parts on the right and left at the rear of a vehicle that are connected to the doors. They have a recess for the wheel arch and usually also have a corresponding bulge so that the dirt that is thrown up when driving does not affect other road users. The sidewall is practically the counterpart to the fender at the front of the vehicle, even if historically it also has fenders. The sidewall is usually designed to last the life of a car, but still often has to be replaced after rear-end collisions. Sidewall of a VW Golf Replacing the sidewall as a last resort If someone has driven into the side of your car, first have the damage assessed by a workshop or a master body builder. Replacing the sidewall should be avoided if possible in order not to endanger the corrosion protection of the vehicle. Other parts such as the taillights, tailgates, doors or bumpers are often affected after accidents, so repairing a defective sidewall is something for specialists. They fit all the components back together. Innovations in the automotive sector and new technologies in body construction mean that additional factors must be taken into account. While in the past the side wall in the wheel arch area was flanged and connected using spot welding, the transition is increasingly being glued and folded. In addition, new materials such as aluminum sheets are being used. Painting the new side wall also presents its own challenge."
body	Vehicle rear	Bumpers/parts		"The primary purpose of the bumper is to reduce the risk of injury to pedestrians and cyclists in the event of an accident. This is achieved using materials that absorb kinetic energy and deform. The actual crumple bodies are usually hidden behind a plastic apron, which can also deform and even return to its original shape when lightly touched. These modern bumpers have been installed since the 1970s and replaced the rigid bumpers that were common up to that point. Rear bumper of a Peugeot 206 Bumper Rear of a vehicle Advantages of bumpers over bumpers Because of their fixed connection to the body, bumpers are unsuitable for reducing the energy of an impact through deformation. Instead, they usually just pass the energy on. The consequences can be much more problematic for both the occupants and the car. Broken bones in collisions with pedestrians have also been reduced through the widespread use of bumpers. After all, even the lightest touches leave a dent in the bumper, while modern bumpers return to their original shape. Nevertheless, in such a case, the structure of the crumple bodies should be checked, because they are usually irreversible. If they have deformed, the bumper must be replaced. Replacing the bumper Replacing a bumper is usually not a challenge for hobby mechanics. Depending on the type of vehicle, the rear lights may have to be removed, but the bumper itself is simply screwed on. Therefore, make sure to order a suitable assembly kit at the same time. Of course, the bumpers or bumper skirts can also change the appearance of a car. They are therefore often replaced when tuning a vehicle. The changes also affect the aerodynamics of a car and can therefore affect its performance."
body	Vehicle rear	Cladding		"The rear wall of a car is the rear part of the body. It can vary greatly depending on the type of vehicle and the shape of the rear, but is usually elongated. In some cases, mounting points for the tail lights are integrated into the rear wall. Together with the tailgate or rear door, the rear wall largely determines the shape of the rear of the vehicle and is usually designed for the service life of the car. Rear wall of a VW Golf Changing the rear wall after an accident Unfortunately, rear-end collisions occur again and again for a variety of reasons. If another road user has driven into the back of your car so hard that the bumper was not strong enough to absorb all the energy, the rear wall will probably also have to be replaced. Have the damage repaired by a qualified workshop or a specialized body builder and buy inexpensive spare parts from us. Working on the rear wall is not suitable for hobby mechanics, as the necessary welding work can cause problems with corrosion protection. If the work is not done cleanly, the new rear wall is at risk of rusting quickly."
body	Gas springs			"A gas pressure spring, often simply referred to as a gas spring, uses a gas under high pressure to achieve a return effect. It is compact and also has a damping effect, which is used in cars primarily on the tailgate and the bonnet. The compression of the gas pushes the piston out and supports the opening. A functioning gas spring is then also able to hold the weight of the flaps. This leaves your hands free and you can work in the engine compartment or trunk without being disturbed. However, these are wear parts, because the pressurized gas can escape over time via the piston seal. This is usually noticeable when the flap being held closes slowly if you do not hold it in place. Eventually it loses its function completely, which means that heavy tailgates in particular can only be opened with difficulty and every closing poses a danger to your fingers. Structure of a gas spring Gas pressure springs consist of a pressure cylinder that is closed at the bottom by a base piece. A piston rod with a piston and seal is inserted at the top end and the resulting cavity in the pressure cylinder is filled with compressed gas. This is usually nitrogen. The gas pressure acts on the cross-section of the piston, with the force increasing when the piston is pressed into the cylinder. Gas springs are also filled with a little oil to enable the piston to slide smoothly and to avoid damage to the seal. They are maintenance-free, but can leak. Do not attempt to repair a defective gas pressure spring, as there is a significant risk of injury. Gas spring from Febi Gas springs must not be opened. There is a risk of injury. Replacing defective gas pressure springs Gas pressure springs can in principle also be replaced by a layperson if they are easily accessible. All you need is a screwdriver to loosen the part and, ideally, a few helping hands. However, car manufacturers have also started to hide the gas pressure spring in the vehicle roof, especially on the tailgate, in order to achieve a more attractive overall appearance. So if your tailgate closes and you can't see any tailgate dampers, we recommend that you go to the workshop. Otherwise you could damage the wiring harness for the tail lights and also cause a dent in the roof. The following videos show how different the replacement of the gas pressure springs can be."
body	Radiator mounting			"A radiator support is a strut on the front of the vehicle to which the radiator and its cooling fins are attached. The radiator support is usually made of sheet steel and, as part of the crumple zone, is responsible for absorbing large amounts of energy in the event of a frontal impact. The energy flows into the deformation and is thus kept away from the passenger cell. In the kfzteile24 online shop, you can buy radiator supports for your car cheaply online. However, please note that replacing the radiator support is usually not enough after an accident. The entire body must be measured and, if necessary, straightened. A workshop can tell you whether this is worthwhile in individual cases or is in proportion to the value of the vehicle."
body	Bumper protection strips			"Painted bumpers are visually appealing but unfortunately quite impractical, because even the smallest bump leaves unsightly scratches. To preserve the paint in everyday life, ramming strips are used. The practical ramming protection made of self-adhesive PVC is simply attached to the vulnerable parts of the bumper. This is particularly useful for protecting the corners, which, thanks to the elastic shock absorption in the hollow chamber design of a ramming strip, can forgive small parking sins. The material itself is flexible and durable, as well as universally usable. You can buy ramming strips as cut pieces or by the meter with enclosed end pieces."
body	Mirror	Mirror / outside mirror / mirror glass		"Mirrors are one of the simplest but most effective safety components in a car. They allow the driver to take a quick look at the traffic behind them without having to turn their head and upper body. This makes it much easier to keep in lane, particularly at high speeds, and prevents the vehicle from swerving. The aim of every mirror on and in the vehicle is to make as large an area as possible visible without any gaps. For this reason, convexly curved mirrors are often used, which reveal as large an area as possible in a slightly reduced size at the expense of size. Side mirror of a Fiat Punto Outside mirror of a Peugeot 206 History of the rear-view mirror Rear-view mirrors are such a natural part of cars that it is difficult to imagine that this was not always the case. The first permanently installed rear-view mirror was fitted to a racing car for the Indianapolis 500 in 1911. This meant that driver Ray Harroun no longer needed a passenger to watch what was happening behind him and was able to win the race thanks to the weight reduction. The revolutionary approach has been used on road vehicles since 1914, but it was not until the 1930s and 1940s that it became standard. Nowadays, the StVZO (Road Traffic Licensing Regulations) stipulates in Section 56 that cars must have mirrors and other devices to allow the driver indirect vision. The driver should be able to observe all essential traffic events. This also leads to the obligation to use additional mirrors or extensions when towing a wide trailer. Comfort functions for exterior mirrors The basic principle of an exterior mirror has not changed for decades, but mirrors have of course been further optimized over time. On the one hand, their shape influences air resistance and thus fuel consumption. The mirrors themselves must be mounted so that they are vibration-free in order to allow a clear view and can now be adjusted electrically from the inside in almost all cars. Heated exterior mirrors are also becoming increasingly popular. Mirrors are now also being supplemented by lane change assistants and reversing cameras."
body	Mirror	Mirror caps		"The mirror caps can influence the overall impression of a vehicle. This means that accentuated highlights can be placed in a prominent place or the overall appearance of the car can be rounded off. As exterior mirrors are usually painted black or in the same color as the vehicle, different mirror caps immediately catch the eye. For example, you can emphasize the sporty nature of your car with carbon mirror caps or give the car a luxurious look with stainless steel caps. Installation is extremely simple: unclip the old cover, clip in the new cover, and you're done. Please note that the mirror caps are based on the shape of the standard mirrors of the vehicle model. If you have already replaced these with sports mirrors, the caps will of course not fit."
body	Sports mirror			"The exterior mirrors of a car stick out and mark the maximum width of a car. Unfortunately, the mirrors are also exposed accordingly. Both bumps and deliberate vandalism can damage the side mirrors, meaning they have to be replaced. If you need to replace them, you can either opt for the standard mirrors provided by the manufacturer or significantly upgrade the car with sports mirrors. Sports exterior mirrors give the car a modern, powerful and dynamic appearance and allow the vehicle to be customized through different designs. They are available electrically or manually adjustable, with and without flashing LEDs and in different shapes and colors. What all sports exterior mirrors have in common, however, is that they act as eye-catchers and are intended for vehicle owners who do not want to settle for standard. Of course, sports mirrors also fulfill their primary function and allow a quick look at the traffic behind. They are installed in just a few steps using special adapter plates that serve as holders for the sports mirrors and are mounted on the vehicle."
body	Sports mirror	Sports mirrors & adapter plates		"The exterior mirrors of a car are attached to the side of the body and are therefore also called side mirrors. They are essential for the driver to keep an eye on the traffic behind them and their design is based on function. Visual aspects are therefore always secondary. Nevertheless, exterior mirrors can also look chic, especially if you choose sports mirrors. They give the vehicle individuality and their streamlined shape suggests high speeds. They are often screwed in place of the original mirror using an adapter plate. The cables for the electronic adjustment and any indicator lights must then also be connected. Sports mirrors Correctly adjust the side mirrors Regardless of whether you use an exterior mirror from the factory or have retrofitted a sports mirror, you should always make sure that the adjustment is correct. To do this, sit in a comfortable driving position and move the exterior mirror to a position where you can still see a little bit of the outside wall of your car. This way you avoid blind spots and can judge your lane well. The horizon should be slightly above the middle of the mirror; after all, you should be watching the road and not the sky. This also reduces glare. Even if your mirrors are correctly adjusted, you should still look over your shoulder when turning or changing lanes. This will allow you to see any blind spots and have a better overview."
body	Expanded / racing grille			"With a racing grille you kill two birds with one stone, because on the one hand the grilles give the car a sporty, dynamic look and on the other hand they protect all kinds of openings where the air intake must not be blocked. The possible uses are almost endless. For example, attach racing grilles to the radiator grille to protect the radiator from stone chips and insects or to spoiler openings and air scoops. Even exhaust covers can be fitted with a grille. Thanks to high-quality anodised aluminium, the grilles are particularly durable and easy to work with at the same time. The opening to be covered is simply measured, the racing grille cut to size and attached with fibreglass filler or a bracket. The grilles can of course also be painted in the colour of the car beforehand. For the mesh size, you can choose between fine (0.5cm / 0.3cm), medium (1.15cm / 0.55cm), coarse (2.2cm / 0.8cm) and honeycomb (0.21cm / 0.4cm). The grilles are completely harmless and do not need to be registered in the vehicle registration document. Racing grilles from Foliatec Racing grilles from raidhp Racing grilles are versatile Racing grilles can also be used in many ways outside of cars. For example, ventilation openings in a garage can be protected from vermin or motorcycles can be visually enhanced by sticking on a racing grille. There are no limits to your imagination when using the flexible grilles. You can recognize high-quality grilles by the fact that they are easy to work with despite their robustness. At kfzteile24 we offer you branded goods from Foliatec, Kamei and raidhp."
body	Wind deflectors			"At kfzteile24 you can also buy wind deflectors as part of the bodywork cheaply online. The parts made of acrylic glass allow the car to be ventilated in any weather. Wind deflectors are available for the front doors, the rear doors and for the sunroof. They protect against wind, rain and snow and also reduce the noise caused by the wind. Wind deflectors are aerodynamically shaped and form a kind of protective edge in front of the windows or the roof opening. In this way, the windows can be opened a crack in any weather without rain and snow getting into the interior. By ventilating the vehicle, new oxygen gets into the passenger compartment, which increases the driver's concentration and ultimately benefits safety. Bad smells such as cigarette smoke can also escape more quickly through the slightly open windows. After all, in winter, ventilation also clears the windows more quickly than if you were to rely solely on the air conditioning."
body	"Decorative/protective/decorative strips, emblems, splash guards"			"Cars are not just objects of everyday use, they also fulfil an emotional function. They are objects of love and status, a hobby and a means of self-fulfillment. It is therefore important that they make a good impression on the outside. To protect doors, bumpers or fenders, protective strips can be applied to particularly stressed areas. They act as a buffer and prevent scratches in the paint. They are often black and inconspicuous, but at the same time serve to accentuate the car. Self-adhesive trim strip for the car Difference between trim strips and protective strips In contrast to protective strips, trim strips are particularly strikingly colored. Chrome strips are very popular with tuning fans. The light reflections give the vehicle a high-quality appearance and underline individual components such as headlights, radiator grilles or sills. Although they also protect the paint, scratches in a trim strip are usually clearly visible. Trim strips are usually made of plastic and glued on. They come in different lengths and widths, but they are all weather and corrosion resistant. A car wash usually cannot harm trim, but a proper hand wash is usually more gentle."
body	"Decorative/protective/decorative strips, emblems, splash guards"	Decorative/protective strips		"Robust protective strips are used on particularly stressed and vulnerable parts of the body and absorb scratches and impacts that would otherwise immediately damage the car's paintwork. The plastic parts do a great job, especially on doors, bumpers and fenders. The PVC protective strips are either glued or attached to doors using suitable fasteners. In addition to their protective function, suitable strips can also serve a visual purpose. They are therefore also known as decorative strips. The transition between functionality and aesthetics is naturally fluid. Chrome design strips from Foliatec Decorative strips and protective strips for many body parts As easy-to-attach elements that often have a self-adhesive surface, protective strips can be flexibly attached almost anywhere. Side walls, radiator grilles or headlights are just a few examples. The durable plastic is weatherproof and is characterized by its long durability. If you like something a little more eye-catching, choose the decorative strip in a chrome design. As an eye-catcher on door edges or on the dashboard, bumper or air grille, you can set visual accents inexpensively."
air conditioner	air conditioner			"For a long time, air conditioning systems were considered a luxury and were therefore only found in luxury cars. However, as people have come to realize that pleasant temperatures inside the car also improve driving safety and, not least, production costs have fallen, they are now standard equipment in cars or are available as an option for all new vehicles. As air conditioning in cars has enjoyed sustained popularity in Germany since the 1980s, the absence of one or a defect has a significant impact on the value of the vehicle. Air conditioning systems are usually reduced to their cooling function, but they can also heat in winter and ensure clean air through interior filters, which are also known as pollen or cabin filters. This protects drivers and passengers from pollen, dust, soot and gases. 1. Structure of an air conditioning system The most important thing about an air conditioning system is the cooling circuit of the coolant, which, similar to a refrigerator, can absorb heat by changing its state of aggregation and release it elsewhere. The cycle begins when the air conditioning compressor sucks in and compresses gaseous coolant. It is therefore also called a compressor. Due to the high pressure of 15-20 bar, the refrigerant gas heats up and is then passed through the condenser. This is normally installed in the front of the vehicle together with the radiator and is equipped with a fan to cool the refrigerant gas even in the event of a traffic jam. This cooling causes the refrigerant to liquefy again, but it is still under high pressure. It is then filtered through the dryer to remove moisture and foreign matter. It then goes on to the expansion valve. The liquid refrigerant passes through this narrow hole to then relax within the evaporator and return to the gaseous state. This process requires heat, which is extracted from the interior air flowing past the evaporator. The now colder air is passed back into the interior of the car. Schematic structure of an air conditioning system in a car 1: Air conditioning compressor with magnetic clutch 2. Condenser with electric fan 3. Liquid container with filter dryer 4. Expansion valve 5. Evaporator 6. Blower 7. Temperature sensor 8. Compensation line 9. Temperature vacuum switch (Image: Heierlon CC-BY-SA 4.0) The evaporator therefore functions as a heat exchanger and is normally installed in the blower box behind the instrument panel. Incidentally: Since cold air can absorb less moisture than warm air, water condenses on the outer fins of the evaporator, which is collected and directed outside. This explains the puddles of water under parked cars in summer. The compressor then sucks in the gaseous coolant again and the cycle is closed. Modern automatic air conditioning systems use numerous sensors to ensure thatthat the system works independently and is constantly regulated. For example, the pressure within the system must not become too high and freezing of the evaporator is also not desired. To prevent this, the constriction of the expansion valve is automatically increased. Air conditioning systems with a so-called fixed throttle cannot do this. 2. Air conditioning or automatic climate control? Air conditioning systems are manual variants of vehicle air conditioning in which cooling is only carried out at the set level. If it is too cold in the interior, readjustment is necessary. Changing sunlight or, for example, driving through tunnels can also make it necessary to adjust the cooling level. With automatic climate control, on the other hand, a desired temperature is selected. Sensors then regulate the system so that automatic climate control independently ensures that the desired temperature is reached and maintained. As a rule, automatic climate control works more efficiently because the system does not deliver more than the required power and unnecessary continuous operation is avoided. Ultimately, automatic climate control saves fuel compared to manual air conditioning. 3. Fuel consumption of an air conditioning system As the compressor requires energy to compress the coolant and is usually driven by a V-ribbed belt or nowadays even by a drive shaft, it increases the engine's working resistance, which results in increased fuel consumption. If the system is not controlled by intelligent energy management, you can expect an additional consumption of around 0.5-1.0 l per 100 km - with valve-controlled compressors it is around 0.2-0.5 l more consumption. Intelligent energy management, on the other hand, ensures that additional consumers that do not require maximum power are shifted to ""cheaper"" energy times. This means, for example, the engine brake: energy is essentially a waste product here and can feed the additional consumers while at the same time protecting the brakes. On the other hand, when idling, the system tries to prevent the energy consumption of additional consumers as far as possible, since the energy should only be used to keep the combustion engine running and everything else costs additional fuel. 4. Optimize consumption and avoid mistakes when using the air conditioning It should be clear that by parking in the shade you can significantly reduce the energy consumption of the air conditioning because the desired temperature is reached more quickly. If parking in the shade is not possible, sun blinds can help by reflecting some of the sun's rays. If the interior has become hot, first open the doors and windows of the car until a bearable temperature is reached. Then close all windows and doors and set the air conditioning to recirculation. Avoid now,Let warm outside air into the vehicle and aim for an interior temperature that is no more than 5 C below the outside temperature. The air flow should appear cool and not cold or even frosty. In addition to saving energy, recirculation mode also reduces the clogging of the pollen filter, which then needs to be cleaned or replaced less often. Also avoid selecting a low target temperature with a weak fan, as the cooled air cannot reach the interior. If you get the idea of ??not using the air conditioning at all in order to save fuel, then be warned. Since the air conditioning compressor is constantly driven by the engine and is only switched off when the pressure is off, the bearings of the compressor shaft could receive too little lubrication. They become leaky and coolant escapes. The necessary sealing of the system is expensive. For the same reason, you should also use the air conditioning from time to time in winter. Finally, make sure that you switch the ventilation on regularly. This costs energy, but at the same time prevents the evaporator from becoming a breeding ground for mold. If mold spreads, it poses a health risk to all passengers and cleaning or replacing it is time-consuming and expensive. By the way: an open window at high speeds costs more fuel than the air conditioning because the air resistance increases. So don't save money in the wrong place. 5. What to do if the air conditioning smells? Especially on hot spring and summer days, you are dependent on the air conditioning in your car. Exposed to the blazing sun, the interior temperatures of a vehicle quickly reach unbearable levels and open windows are usually not an adequate alternative. But what many fans blow at passengers is not only cold air but also a foul smell. It doesn't matter whether the car has air conditioning or a modern automatic climate control system, because musty, putrid stench can plague both systems. Bacteria cause air conditioning to smell Mold and bacteria in the air conditioning system should not be taken lightly. (Image: mphillips007 @istockphoto.com) 5.1 Cause of the air conditioning smell If the air conditioning smells when the ventilation is switched on, the reason is always an infestation by bacteria and possibly mold. The germs have multiplied within the system and are releasing their metabolic products into the air. This is not only unpleasant, but can also lead to allergic reactions, poor concentration and, of course, nausea. Mycotoxins from mold in particular are toxic to vertebrates and therefore also to humans, even in small quantities. Infestation always requires a sufficient supply of moisture. The water is in the air, because on warm days it can absorb significantly more moisture.You can feel this in the oppressively muggy heat, which the body responds to by sweating profusely. Cold air, on the other hand, can bind less water, so it condenses. In an air conditioning system, the evaporator is responsible for cooling the air. The air therefore releases a large amount of water on the cold surface of the cooling fins, which initially settles as ice, then drips off and is carried out of the car through drain pipes. This process can often be observed when puddles of water form under parked cars in summer. The process becomes problematic when the water cannot drain away as intended. If the drain is blocked by leaves or other dirt, for example, it builds up under the evaporator and forms the basis for later germ infestation. After all, moisture and warm temperatures are the ideal breeding ground for fungi and bacteria, so the unpleasant smell from the air conditioning system can develop very quickly and seemingly out of nowhere. 5.2 Eliminating the cause Before you can start fighting the bacteria and mold, the cause of the moisture build-up must be eliminated. Clean the drain lines and make sure that water cannot accumulate anywhere. Pay particular attention to the area under the evaporator. By using the air conditioning correctly, you can also prevent moisture from building up in the ventilation lines. Always switch off the air conditioning a few minutes before parking the car and leave the ventilation running at a high level. Any condensation will be blown into the interior and cannot cause any damage as humidity. Open the windows so that the interior warms up again. 5.3 Eliminating the smell The only way to get rid of the bad smell of a smelly air conditioning system is through effective disinfection. The agent is distributed in the car and kills the smelly microorganisms with chemicals. This work is offered by workshops as part of an air conditioning service, among other things, but you can also apply the appropriate air conditioning cleaner yourself. To do this, close all windows, activate the ventilation and switch to recirculation. The disinfectant is then opened and placed on a surface inside the vehicle. Leather seats should be completely covered if possible to avoid any stains. The ambient temperature should generally be warm rather than cold. Disinfecting the air conditioning with a spray The disinfectant is circulated and distributed through the ventilation. Now leave the car and close the door. The circulating air flow allows the disinfectant to reach all cracks and channels, killing up to 99.9% of the microorganisms there. This process can take some time depending on the agent and the amount.Please note the respective product instructions. It is also advisable to repeat the procedure with a different air conditioning cleaner, as the different active ingredients promise an even better result and the risk of resistant germs is low. The car must then be thoroughly aired. Air conditioning disinfectant from Sonax Only effective disinfection can help against the smell of an air conditioning system. The spray agent is not very difficult. Air conditioning cleaner Liqui Moly Special foam cleaner kills germs and the air conditioning system is thoroughly cleaned. Take some time. Air conditioning cleaner Petec kfzteile24 offers a large selection of air conditioning cleaners that work reliably and are easy to use. 5.4 Professional cleaning of the air conditioning system You can combat a smelly air conditioning system even more effectively by first removing the interior fan and the pollen filter. Using a probe, the disinfectant solution can then be applied directly to the evaporator, where it offers reliable protection against new infestation for a long time. Of course, you should also clean the fan and change the interior filter at this time. If you repeat the procedure once a year, you will usually get rid of the smell of the air conditioning system once and for all. 6. Why is the air conditioning not cooling? Possible causes of a defect Now that the structure of an air conditioning system is clear, we can also identify possible sources of error. Perhaps coolant has leaked through hard seals or loose connections? Owners of older vehicles are particularly familiar with this problem. Also check whether the pipes are damaged. An air conditioning system may only be filled with new coolant by suitably qualified specialists. A defective compressor is not quite as simple, and may have become stuck due to the air conditioning system not being used. In such a case, only replacement will help. But the condenser, which cools down the pressurized gas, could also be damaged. Stone chips create holes in the material and the circulating coolant leaks out at the damaged areas. Since the condenser is on the high-pressure side of the air conditioning system, only replacing the component will help in such a case. If the air conditioning system fails on particularly hot days or in traffic jams, this may be due to the cooling fan, which is either defective or does not start due to a broken sensor. In this case too, replacing the defective components is the only solution.Air conditioning disinfectant from Sonax Only effective disinfection can help against the smell of an air conditioning system. The spray does not require much work. Air conditioning cleaner Liqui Moly Special foam cleaner kills germs and the air conditioning system is thoroughly cleaned. Take some time. Air conditioning cleaner Petec kfzteile24 offers a large selection of air conditioning cleaners that work reliably and are easy to use. 5.4 Professional cleaning of the air conditioning system You can combat a smelly air conditioning system even more effectively by first removing the interior fan and the pollen filter. Using a probe, the disinfectant solution can then be applied directly to the evaporator, where it offers reliable protection against new infestation for a long time. Of course, you should also take this opportunity to clean the fan and change the interior filter. If you repeat the procedure once a year, you will usually get rid of the smell of the air conditioning system for good. 6. Why is the air conditioning system not cooling? Possible causes of a defect Now that the structure of an air conditioning system is clear, we can also identify possible sources of error. Perhaps coolant has leaked through hard seals or loose connections? Owners of older vehicles are particularly familiar with this problem. Also check whether the pipes are damaged. An air conditioning system may only be filled with new coolant by suitably qualified specialists. A defective compressor is not quite as easy to fix, perhaps because it has become stuck due to the air conditioning system not being used. In such a case, the only solution is to replace it. But the condenser, which cools down the pressurized gas, could also be damaged. Stone chips create holes in the material and the circulating coolant escapes at the damaged areas. Since the condenser is on the high-pressure side of the air conditioning system, in such a case, the only solution is to replace the component. If the air conditioning system fails on particularly hot days or in traffic jams, this could be due to the cooling fan, which is either defective or does not start due to a broken sensor. In this case, too, the only solution is to replace the defective components.Air conditioning disinfectant from Sonax Only effective disinfection can help against the smell of an air conditioning system. The spray does not require much work. Air conditioning cleaner Liqui Moly Special foam cleaner kills germs and the air conditioning system is thoroughly cleaned. Take some time. Air conditioning cleaner Petec kfzteile24 offers a large selection of air conditioning cleaners that work reliably and are easy to use. 5.4 Professional cleaning of the air conditioning system You can combat a smelly air conditioning system even more effectively by first removing the interior fan and the pollen filter. Using a probe, the disinfectant solution can then be applied directly to the evaporator, where it offers reliable protection against new infestation for a long time. Of course, you should also take this opportunity to clean the fan and change the interior filter. If you repeat the procedure once a year, you will usually get rid of the smell of the air conditioning system for good. 6. Why is the air conditioning system not cooling? Possible causes of a defect Now that the structure of an air conditioning system is clear, we can also identify possible sources of error. Perhaps coolant has leaked through hard seals or loose connections? Owners of older vehicles are particularly familiar with this problem. Also check whether the pipes are damaged. An air conditioning system may only be filled with new coolant by suitably qualified specialists. A defective compressor is not quite as easy to fix, perhaps because it has become stuck due to the air conditioning system not being used. In such a case, the only solution is to replace it. But the condenser, which cools down the pressurized gas, could also be damaged. Stone chips create holes in the material and the circulating coolant escapes at the damaged areas. Since the condenser is on the high-pressure side of the air conditioning system, in such a case, the only solution is to replace the component. If the air conditioning system fails on particularly hot days or in traffic jams, this could be due to the cooling fan, which is either defective or does not start due to a broken sensor. In this case, too, the only solution is to replace the defective components.Of course, you should also take this opportunity to clean the fan and change the cabin filter. If you repeat the procedure once a year, you will usually get rid of the smell from the air conditioning system for good. 6. Why is the air conditioning not cooling? Possible causes of a defect Now that the structure of an air conditioning system is clear, we can also identify possible sources of error. Perhaps coolant has leaked through hard seals or loose connections? Owners of older vehicles in particular are familiar with this problem. Also check whether the pipes are damaged. An air conditioning system may only be filled with new coolant by suitably qualified specialists. A defective compressor is not quite so simple, and may have become stuck due to the air conditioning system not being used. In such a case, only replacement will help. But the condenser, which cools down the pressurized gas, could also be damaged. Stone chips cause holes in the material and the circulating coolant leaks out at the damaged areas. Since the condenser is on the high-pressure side of the air conditioning system, only replacement of the component will help in such a case. If the air conditioning fails on particularly hot days or in traffic jams, this may be due to the cooling fan being either defective or not starting due to a broken sensor. In this case, too, the only remedy is to replace the defective components.Of course, you should also take this opportunity to clean the fan and change the cabin filter. If you repeat the procedure once a year, you will usually get rid of the smell from the air conditioning system for good. 6. Why is the air conditioning not cooling? Possible causes of a defect Now that the structure of an air conditioning system is clear, we can also identify possible sources of error. Perhaps coolant has leaked through hard seals or loose connections? Owners of older vehicles in particular are familiar with this problem. Also check whether the pipes are damaged. An air conditioning system may only be filled with new coolant by suitably qualified specialists. A defective compressor is not quite so simple, and may have become stuck due to the air conditioning system not being used. In such a case, only replacement will help. But the condenser, which cools down the pressurized gas, could also be damaged. Stone chips cause holes in the material and the circulating coolant leaks out at the damaged areas. Since the condenser is on the high-pressure side of the air conditioning system, only replacement of the component will help in such a case. If the air conditioning fails on particularly hot days or in traffic jams, this may be due to the cooling fan being either defective or not starting due to a broken sensor. In this case, too, the only remedy is to replace the defective components."
air conditioner	Operation/Control			"In contrast to a simpler air conditioning system, an automatic climate control system offers the option of setting a target temperature that the corresponding control unit automatically targets and maintains once it is reached. In order to be able to handle this task without manual intervention by the driver, actuators or actuators are required in addition to temperature sensors. The control unit can use them to operate the mixing flap or temperature control flap and to change the position of the recirculation flap. This means that the air flow into the interior of the vehicle can be adapted to the current conditions. Readjustment is not necessary. Actuator from Valeo How do you recognize defective actuators? A defective actuator in the automatic climate control system can be seen in the fact that the system is no longer able to change the temperature of the air flow, i.e. only cold or warm air is blown into the interior. Sporadic temperature fluctuations or noises are often a clear indication that the actuators need to be replaced. They consist of an electric motor, gears and a potentiometer and can either be mechanically damaged or transmit incorrect position signals from the flap to the control unit due to worn solder joints with correspondingly faulty resistors. This can also happen depending on the weather and, for example, in winter it can lead to the windows alternately fogging up and freezing over. The control elements are usually housed in a plastic housing and should be replaced by a specialist workshop depending on the vehicle, as they can be difficult to reach depending on the car."
air conditioner	Compressor/Parts			"The compressor is the heart of an air conditioning system, because it compresses the gaseous refrigerant so that the cooling cycle can begin. It is usually driven by a V-ribbed belt so that the engine power can be used for compression. A running compressor therefore inevitably increases fuel consumption. Depending on the system, the additional consumption can be up to one liter per 100 kilometers, although intelligent energy management systems and valve-controlled compressors are much more economical. Additional consumers such as the compressor are shifted to ""cheap"" energy times wherever possible. This means that a lot of energy is available when braking, which can be used and is otherwise only converted into heat. The air conditioning compressor works particularly inefficiently when idling, i.e. ideally you should not run the air conditioning when the vehicle is stationary. We have summarized simple tips and tricks to combat heat in the car in a suitable guide. Compressor of an air conditioning system Air conditioning compressor from Valeo How the air conditioning compressor works The compression of the air conditioning compressor heats up the refrigerant and it is then fed through the corresponding high-pressure lines to the cooler or condenser. Air flows around it, which absorbs the heat from the cooling fins. The heat transfer causes the coolant to change its state of aggregation and liquefy. However, the pressure remains at around 15-20 bar. After the coolant has passed through the dryer, it can relax again after the expansion valve and return to the gaseous state. However, this transition requires energy, which the coolant extracts from the interior air in the form of heat via the evaporator. The evaporator and interior air cool down. The cold air is blown back into the vehicle interior and the desired cooling effect is created. Compressor defective? A defective compressor often means that the air conditioning system either no longer works or no longer provides the usual cooling performance. Various symptoms can occur. Leaks and noise are common signs that the compressor is defective. A corresponding error code can also be an important clue. The causes of air conditioning compressors failing, however, are very different. Possible causes include bearing damage or a lack of coolant due to a leak elsewhere. Faulty clamping elements or corrosion can also lead to compressor failure. Problems with the electrical control valve or mechanical damage within the housing are also conceivable."
air conditioner	capacitor			"The air conditioning condenser, also known as the air conditioning condenser for short, is installed in the front of a car in front of, behind or next to the engine radiator. In some cases it is a single component that fulfils both functions and is integrated into both the air conditioning system's coolant circuit and the engine's coolant circuit. The gaseous coolant heats up to temperatures of 60  - 100  Celsius due to the compression of the air conditioning compressor and is cooled at the condenser by the ambient air flowing past. The gas changes into the liquid state due to the removal of energy - a process called condensation, which gives the condenser its name. The term condenser is also sometimes used for this reason. A blower or fan ensures that enough air flows past the fins of the condenser to absorb the thermal energy even in traffic jams and stop-and-go traffic. Condenser for the air conditioning system from Valeo Air conditioning condenser structure The air conditioning condenser consists of a very thin high-pressure line that is guided in a metal housing in such a way that the heat transfer to the ambient air is optimized. The heat is not only released directly into the air, but also into the housing due to the better thermal conductivity of the metal. This has the largest possible surface area, which is achieved by the lamellar structure. However, stone chips can damage the delicate pipe network, causing coolant to leak out. The condenser is therefore a common cause of air conditioning system failure. Leaks are discovered during an air conditioning check. The necessary replacement of the condenser can then only be carried out by a specialist workshop. The coolant is toxic, after all. Sealing the condenser is not possible due to the high pressure."
air conditioner	Switch			"The air conditioning system usually also has safety devices that monitor the operating status of the system. Pressure switches or high-pressure sensors are used, for example, in the high-pressure lines after the air conditioning compressor to ensure that the pipes are not damaged by excess pressure. It sends a clocked signal to the air conditioning control unit, the pulse width of which depends on the line pressure: the larger the pulse width, the greater the pressure. If the value exceeds a predetermined limit, e.g. 30 bar, the compressor is deactivated. Pressures that are too low are also interpreted accordingly, i.e. the control unit assumes there is a leak in the system (often at the condenser) and deactivates the compressor to prevent excessive refrigerant leakage. In both cases, the air conditioning system is no longer operational. Pressure switches from febi bilstein for the air conditioning system Temperature switches and low-pressure switches In addition to the high-pressure line, the low-pressure side before the compressor or after the expansion valve can of course also be monitored by a pressure switch. The temperature of the coolant after compression is also a control variable for the control unit. For example, at 60 C an additional fan can be activated on the condenser to liquefy the coolant. If it stays too warm and does not change state, the coolant circuit would come to a standstill. The air conditioning would fail."
air conditioner	Hoses/Cables			"The air conditioning system is a combination of numerous components. The compressor compresses the coolant, it is liquefied in the condenser and then expanded again in the evaporator after the expansion valve. However, all of these components only work together because hoses and lines create a connection that maintains the closed circuit. Depending on where they are used, i.e. before or after the air conditioning compressor, these are low-pressure or high-pressure lines. The expanded coolant moves in the low-pressure lines, which means they must be gas-tight. The high-pressure lines must also withstand thermal loads of up to 100  Celsius and, of course, high pressures. A pressure switch ensures that the pressure does not rise above a specified limit of around 30 bar so that the line system does not leak or become damaged. High-pressure line for the air conditioning system from Hella High-pressure lines for the air conditioning system The high-pressure line of an air conditioning system can be recognized by its smaller cross-section. They can either be made entirely of metal or be a combination of metal and plastic. The lines not only have to withstand thermal stress from the compressed and heated refrigerant as well as pressure stress, but must also not corrode. They must also be resistant to any leaking operating materials and are manufactured according to the route. For this reason, when purchasing a high-pressure line, pay attention to which connection the line is intended for. After all, the path from the compressor to the condenser and the path from the condenser to the evaporator are not the same. Installation is carried out by a specialist workshop, because the draining and subsequent refilling of the refrigerant may only be carried out by qualified personnel."
air conditioner	Sensors			"Vehicles with automatic climate control offer a decisive comfort advantage over air conditioning systems, because they are able to adjust the actual temperature in the interior of a car to the target temperature specified by the driver. The value is determined by a corresponding sensor. The temperature sensor essentially consists of a so-called thermistor, i.e. a resistor whose value changes depending on the temperature. The temperature can be calculated from the change in resistance using the specific temperature response formula of the material used. Depending on the area of ??application, different temperature ranges must be covered and the required measurement accuracy also varies. Pure metals are usually used as thermistors (NTC resistors) or thermistors (PTC resistors), but alloys or ceramics are also conceivable. Sensor for the interior temperature from febi bilstein Replacing a defective temperature sensor You can recognize a defective temperature sensor by the fact that the air conditioning system displays implausible values. The cause is often corrosion on the contacts and thus a change in the measured resistance. The control unit of the automatic climate control system derives an incorrect temperature from this. Depending on the situation, the sensor can usually be replaced without any specialist knowledge. Simply remove the defective sensor, clean the contacts thoroughly and check the wiring for any damage. Then simply plug in the new temperature sensor and insert it. Of course, you should first check the contacts of the old sensor before buying a new one."
air conditioner	dryer			"The dryer of an air conditioning system can either be integrated directly into the condenser or it can be located as a separate component between the condenser and the expansion valve. Its primary task is to bind water that has been introduced into the refrigerant circuit either during assembly or during repair work. Due to the hygroscopic properties of the refrigerant, moisture can also penetrate through porous hoses or other leaks. The process is chemical and is necessary because water can otherwise lead to icing on the expansion valve. If the small hole is blocked, the pressure increases until the high-pressure sensor finally deactivates the compressor. The water can also lead to corrosion and damage the compressor itself, as the incompressible liquid drops are also sucked in. Dryer for Mercedes Benz from febi bilstein Structure and function of the dryer The dryer with storage tank is an elongated component with a mostly round cross-section into which the refrigerant flows from the condenser. In order to withstand the pressure, its housing is made of metal. A filter screen separates impurities such as abrasion from the air conditioning compressor and highly hygroscopic beads remove the water from the coolant. The dryer also has a storage function, as coolant is stored upstream for further transport to the expansion valve. However, the hygroscopically active layer within the dryer is saturated at some point, so the component, as a classic wearing part, must be replaced at regular intervals. The intervals are specified by the manufacturer and are usually 2 years. In addition, the dryer should be replaced every time the coolant circuit is opened. The replacement is carried out by a specialist workshop."
air conditioner	Valves			"The expansion valve regulates the amount of refrigerant that is injected into the evaporator and can be manufactured either as a thermostatic expansion valve or as a fixed throttle. Regulating the amount of refrigerant using an expansion valve offers the advantage that the injection amount can be adapted to the respective operating state, so that optimal use of the evaporator surface is achieved. A fixed throttle, on the other hand, only works optimally in the operating state specified by the manufacturer. In this case, a collecting container in the low-pressure side of the air conditioning system serves as a storage container and at the same time protects the compressor from liquid hammer. Expansion valve for the Valeo air conditioning system Structure and function of an expansion valve The expansion valve is the point at which the pressurized liquid refrigerant expands into the evaporator. Due to the pressure drop from 15-20 bar to approx. 2.5 bar, the refrigerant returns to the gaseous state. The required energy is extracted in the form of heat from the air flowing past the evaporator. The expansion valve itself consists of several holes and a valve slide with a thermal sensor. The expansion valve thus creates a balance between the refrigerant flow and the exhaust. Since these are precision devices, they are usually a little more expensive than simple injection nozzles or throttles. However, you can still buy expansion valves cheaply from us."
air conditioner	Evaporator			"In the evaporator, the pressurized coolant relaxes and changes into a gaseous state. This requires energy, which is extracted from the ambient air in the form of heat. The air passed by the evaporator by the interior fan becomes colder and the air conditioning system can perform its cooling function. Just as with the engine cooler or condenser, the largest possible surface area must be available for optimal heat exchange, which is ensured by fins. To further optimize the transfer of thermal energy, evaporators are made of metal. Evaporators for the air conditioning system from Hella Icing up of the evaporator A relatively common problem with evaporators is that the surface ices over. This is particularly true in weather with high temperatures and high humidity. Since warm air absorbs more moisture than cold air, water can condense on the outside of the evaporator and freeze due to the cold. Ice may be cold, but unfortunately it is a poor conductor of heat, so an icy evaporator reduces cooling performance. The melting ice after the air conditioning is switched off is also the reason why puddles of water form under parked cars in summer. Regularly check the drains, which can become clogged with dirt. If meltwater collects under the evaporator, this can provide the ideal breeding ground for germs and make the air conditioning smell. A complex and expensive disinfection is then unavoidable. We therefore recommend that you switch off the air conditioning 1-2 kilometers before reaching your destination in summer. This allows the remaining moisture to be blown out of the system by the interior fan."
Comfort systems	Comfort systems			"In modern vehicles, comfort not only serves the well-being of the occupants, but also makes a significant contribution to driving safety. For example, parking sensors and reversing alarms support the driver when maneuvering in tight spaces. Automatic window lifters prevent dangerous distractions caused by unnecessary cranking and a cruise control system, also known as tempomat, tempostat or tempo pilot, regulates the engine speed so that a set speed is automatically maintained. In this way, the driver remains relaxed even on long journeys and can concentrate fully on the traffic. Older cars can also usually be retrofitted, so that the purchase of comfort systems not only serves safety but also maintains the value of the car. At kfzteile24 you can buy a variety of different systems such as seat heating or a rain sensor online at low prices. You can also find alarm systems and central locking systems in the shop. Like all parts ordered from kfzteile24, comfort systems are usually available after 24 hours. Brand manufacturers such as Hella, Bosch, febi bilstein, Valeo or EAL are a guarantee of quality. If you have any questions about purchasing, delivery or order status, simply contact our support team. The trained staff will also be happy to advise you before you buy. Retrofit kits, individual parts & more: comfort systems for every need There is a wide variety of comfort systems to choose from on kfzteile24.de. If you only want to retrofit on a point-by-point basis (which is often the case for owners of classic cars), we recommend purchasing individual car parts. For example, to equip just the window pane on the front passenger side with an electric opening system, it is sufficient to purchase a window regulator plus a switch and motor. Alternatively, complete retrofit kits are also available, with which two or four windows can be equipped with such mechanisms. Those who place particular value on comfort should choose kits that also include control panels with illuminated switch symbols. The selection of alarm systems and central locking systems is no less diverse. The universally designed systems can often be expanded with certain parts (for example the radio systems from JOM, for which the manufacturer produces so-called ""Coming Home"" modules) or offer functions that go beyond a basic expansion (additional control of the trunk, etc.). And the alarm systems offered by kfzteile24 also have numerous options. Vibration sensors can be adjusted in terms of their sensitivity and the vehicle owner can determine whether a so-called pre-alarm should be triggered even with slight vibrations. To buy a suitable comfort system,Simply specify your vehicle before ordering so that only systems that can actually be installed are displayed."
Comfort systems	Alarm system			"Alarm systems are an indispensable part of modern cars, as they represent the minimum level of protection against unauthorized access. An alarm system usually makes itself known by honking loudly and activating the indicators, thus scaring off potential thieves. On the other hand, it can happen that the rightful owner also has problems with the alarm system. For example, defective parts such as relays can cause the alarm system to suddenly go off even when the car is simply opened. Anyone who experiences such a situation, for example while shopping, knows how stressful it can be. For this reason, you can also find replacement parts for your alarm system at kfzteile24."
Comfort systems	Parking aid/reversing alarm			"Parking aids or reversing alarms are a very convenient way of avoiding collisions when reversing. Since the sensors are often mounted in the bumper, they also detect obstacles that the driver cannot see due to their low height. These can be suitcases, stones or even pets. Parking aids are therefore often installed as a standard feature in modern cars. Their main purpose is, of course, to avoid parking bumps when maneuvering in the urban jungle. Tight parking spaces and jostling traffic are just some of the everyday problems when parking a car. Parking aid sensor New sensor for the parking aid The parking aid usually consists of at least four sensors that emit sound waves. If the waves hit an obstacle, they are reflected, which is detected by the sensors. A connected control unit determines the distance to the object from the deceleration and can communicate this to the driver either acoustically via loudspeakers or using corresponding digital distance displays. The principle is similar to the sonar of a bat. The sensors are usually very stable and durable, but can be mechanically damaged if an accident occurs. Damaged cables can also cause the system to fail."
Comfort systems	Parking aids / PDC (universal)			"Parking aids, sometimes also known as park distance control (PDC), are increasingly being installed directly by car manufacturers or can be ordered as an extra with a new car. The reason is quite simple: in our cities, parking space is decreasing, the spaces are getting narrower, while the number of cars is increasing. Parking aids are often used to avoid damaging shock absorbers, which are usually painted in the same color as the car, and to avoid expensive repairs. They are usually based on the principle of sound detection. Parking aid from Valeo Sensors, control unit and display of a parking aid How a parking aid works Similar to a bat, the sensors of the parking aid send out sound waves that are reflected by objects. A control unit can use this to calculate the distance to an obstacle and display it both visually and acoustically. This is usually done by a signal tone that is modulated in frequency. The closer the object comes to the sensor, the faster the warning tone becomes before it finally changes into a continuous signal. To ensure that this principle works consistently, several sensors are installed at the height of the bumper, which point directly to the rear and also cover the side area. Retrofitting a parking aid Retrofitting a parking aid requires manual skills, but is otherwise relatively easy. The sensors are first painted in the color of the car, after all, they should be as inconspicuous as possible. However, when buying a parking aid, you must make sure that the sensors can also be painted. Holes are then drilled in the bumper and the sensors are inserted with spacer rings. This is followed by the connection of the control unit, which then has to be connected to the car's electrics in accordance with the instructions."
Comfort systems	Parking aids / PDC (universal)	Parking aid	Rear view cameras	"Rear view camera - safe and relaxed parking When parking in a tight space, you can start to sweat without a parking aid. Small parking bumps can happen quickly. Is there an obstacle behind my car? How much space do I have to the back? Thoughts that we are all familiar with. A rear view camera makes parking much more relaxed. It shows you exactly how far you can still reverse or whether there is a post in the way. And the good news is: even if your car does not yet have a rear view camera, you can retrofit one quite easily. Rear view camera vs. acoustic parking aid If you want to retrofit a parking aid on your vehicle, you can choose between an acoustic aid and a rear view camera. An acoustic parking aid communicates the distance to an obstacle using beeps - there is no display. The faster the frequency of the beeps, the less space you have left. With a pure rear view camera, you can see the distance to obstacles on a display - without an acoustic signal. The advantage of a rear view camera: it is easier to retrofit. If you want to retrofit an acoustic parking aid, you have to install the corresponding sensors in your car. You don't have to do this work if you opt for a camera alone. Installing a rear view camera is a little less complicated, especially for laypeople. Do you want both? Then you also have the option of retrofitting both in one. There are combination sets that include both cameras and parking sensors. Detect the driving path precisely: rear view camera with lines Rear view cameras with guide lines are particularly practical. The dynamically displayed lines are shown on the display and help you to better estimate distances. This makes it easier to see how much space you have left. Dynamically steering lines even show which path your vehicle will take with your current steering wheel position. This helps to see whether you are steering correctly into the parking space you are aiming for with one steering movement. Retrofitting a rear view camera - how it works Nowadays, integrated rear view cameras are often standard in modern cars. However, if your car does not yet have a standard parking aid, you can simply retrofit a reversing camera yourself. Installing a reversing camera yourself is quite easy, even for laypeople. The first step is to decide between a wireless and a wired reversing camera. Installing a wireless reversing camera Wireless reversing cameras are particularly easy to retrofit, as you do not need to lay any cables in the vehicle. Data transfer with wireless reversing cameras usually works via WLAN or Bluetooth. Some wireless reversing cameras can be connected to a smartphone.The smartphone screen then serves as the camera display. The advantage: You don't need an extra display that you have to attach to your dashboard. However, a cell phone holder is particularly recommended for reversing cameras that work with your smartphone. Installing a wired reversing camera With a wired reversing camera, the camera signals are transmitted to the display via a permanently installed cable. To do this, you have to lay a cable from the camera to the display. This is a bit more complicated than with a wireless reversing camera - but wired cameras are usually cheaper and less disruptive than wireless reversing cameras. Regardless of whether the reversing camera is wireless or wired, it is important in any case that the parking aid has an ECE test mark. Because only then is it approved by the T V. Attaching the display and camera to the vehicle Most reversing cameras come with an extra display that you can easily attach to the dashboard or windshield. If you have a car radio with a display, it may also be possible to transfer the image from the reversing camera to the radio display. This requires a lot of technical expertise (and it doesn't work with every radio) - but this way you don't have to attach a separate display to your vehicle. Or you can opt for a wireless reversing camera that you can connect to your smartphone, as already described. You can usually attach the camera itself to the license plate holder. There are special license plate holders with a mounting option. In order for the reversing camera to switch on automatically when you put the car into reverse, you also have to connect it to the tail lights. This way the camera automatically receives power. There are also models that are activated by pressing a button. You don't have to connect these to the tail lights. This is why installation is of course a little quicker. However, with these models you have to activate the display manually before reversing. In addition, such reversing cameras are usually battery-operated or have to be charged, because the camera and display naturally need power. Some reversing cameras can also be used instead of the license plate light. The camera then takes over the function of the previous lighting. Before you finally install the rear view camera, you should test it provisionally. This way you don't have to go to the trouble of dismantling everything and looking for the fault if something doesn't work. This is what you should look out for when buying With or without lines in the display, wireless or wired, with display or smartphone compatible - these are by no means the only decisions you have to make when buying a rear view camera. We have summarized the most important ones for you:LED night vision function for parking at night The best reversing camera is of no use if you can't see anything because it's dark outside. To solve this problem, there are reversing cameras with LED night vision function. LEDs are embedded around the camera. These ensure that there is always enough light for the camera, even at night. This means you can use your reversing cameras in the dark without any problems. See as much as possible: The viewing angle of the reversing camera The larger the viewing angle, the more you see in the camera image. A distinction is made between the horizontal and vertical viewing angles. The horizontal viewing angle should be between 100  and 170 . It is also important that the image is displayed as realistically as possible and is not too distorted. The right resolution Both reversing cameras and the associated displays are available in different resolutions. If you want to see a razor-sharp image, you should buy a system with a higher resolution. If a simpler image is enough for you, you can also go for a lower resolution - which is often a little cheaper. The most important things about reversing cameras in summary Installing a reversing camera is particularly useful for safety reasons. Not only does it help when parking, but you can also spot children playing when reversing, for example, much earlier. Here we have summarized the most important things about retrofitting a reversing camera for you. Retrofitting a reversing camera is quite easy, even for laypeople. There are wireless and wired reversing cameras. While wireless reversing cameras are particularly easy to install, wired ones are usually cheaper and less prone to failure. As a rule, reversing cameras come with an extra display. You can attach this to the dashboard or windshield. Some wireless reversing cameras use the screen of your smartphone as a display. Some can also be connected to the screen of the car radio. Reversing cameras are usually attached to the license plate holder and connected to the taillights. This is how they get power and the camera is automatically activated as soon as you put the car in reverse. It is important that the reversing camera has an ECE test mark. Only then is it approved for use on public roads. Reversing cameras with lines show where your vehicle is going with your current steering wheel position. This makes them particularly useful for tight parking spaces. So that the camera can also help you at night, you should get a reversing camera with an LED night vision function. Here, LEDs ensure sufficient lighting even at night.that there is always enough light for the camera, even at night. This means you can use your reversing cameras in the dark without any problems. See as much as possible: The viewing angle of the reversing camera The larger the viewing angle, the more you can see in the camera image. A distinction is made between the horizontal and vertical viewing angles. The horizontal viewing angle should be between 100  and 170 . It is also important that the image is displayed as realistically as possible and is not distorted too much. The right resolution Both reversing cameras and the associated displays are available in different resolutions. If you want to see a razor-sharp image, you should buy a system with a higher resolution. If a simpler image is enough for you, you can also choose a lower resolution - which is often a little cheaper. The most important things about reversing cameras in summary Installing a reversing camera is particularly useful for safety reasons. Not only does it help when parking, but you can also spot children playing much earlier when reversing, for example. Here we have summarized the most important things about retrofitting a reversing camera for you. Retrofitting a reversing camera is quite easy even for laypeople. There are wireless and wired reversing cameras. While wireless reversing cameras are particularly easy to install, wired ones are usually cheaper and less prone to failure. As a rule, reversing cameras come with an extra display. You can attach this to the dashboard or windshield. Some wireless reversing cameras use the screen of your smartphone as a display. Some can also be connected to the screen of the car radio. Reversing cameras are usually attached to the license plate holder and connected to the taillights. This is how they get power and the camera is automatically activated as soon as you put the car into reverse. It is important that the reversing camera has an ECE test mark. Only then is it approved for road traffic. Reversing cameras with lines show where your vehicle is going with your current steering wheel position. This makes them particularly useful for tight parking spaces. To ensure that the camera also helps you at night, you should get a rear view camera with LED night vision function. Here, LEDs ensure sufficient lighting even at night.that there is always enough light for the camera, even at night. This means you can use your reversing cameras in the dark without any problems. See as much as possible: The viewing angle of the reversing camera The larger the viewing angle, the more you can see in the camera image. A distinction is made between the horizontal and vertical viewing angles. The horizontal viewing angle should be between 100  and 170 . It is also important that the image is displayed as realistically as possible and is not distorted too much. The right resolution Both reversing cameras and the associated displays are available in different resolutions. If you want to see a razor-sharp image, you should buy a system with a higher resolution. If a simpler image is enough for you, you can also choose a lower resolution - which is often a little cheaper. The most important things about reversing cameras in summary Installing a reversing camera is particularly useful for safety reasons. Not only does it help when parking, but you can also spot children playing much earlier when reversing, for example. Here we have summarized the most important things about retrofitting a reversing camera for you. Retrofitting a reversing camera is quite easy even for laypeople. There are wireless and wired reversing cameras. While wireless reversing cameras are particularly easy to install, wired ones are usually cheaper and less prone to failure. As a rule, reversing cameras come with an extra display. You can attach this to the dashboard or windshield. Some wireless reversing cameras use the screen of your smartphone as a display. Some can also be connected to the screen of the car radio. Reversing cameras are usually attached to the license plate holder and connected to the taillights. This is how they get power and the camera is automatically activated as soon as you put the car into reverse. It is important that the reversing camera has an ECE test mark. Only then is it approved for road traffic. Reversing cameras with lines show where your vehicle is going with your current steering wheel position. This makes them particularly useful for tight parking spaces. To ensure that the camera also helps you at night, you should get a rear view camera with LED night vision function. Here, LEDs ensure sufficient lighting even at night.The right resolution Both reversing cameras and the associated displays are available in different resolutions. If you want to see a razor-sharp image, you should buy a system with a higher resolution. If a simpler image is enough for you, you can also go for a lower resolution - which is often a little cheaper. The most important things about reversing cameras in summary Installing a reversing camera is particularly useful for safety reasons. Not only does it help when parking, but you can also spot children playing when reversing, for example, much earlier. Here we have summarized the most important things about retrofitting a reversing camera for you. Retrofitting a reversing camera is quite easy even for laypeople. There are wireless and wired reversing cameras. While wireless reversing cameras are particularly easy to install, wired ones are usually cheaper and less prone to failure. As a rule, reversing cameras come with an extra display. You can attach this to the dashboard or windshield. Some wireless reversing cameras use the screen of your smartphone as a display. Some can also be connected to the screen of the car radio. Most reversing cameras are attached to the license plate holder and connected to the rear lights. This is how they get power and the camera is automatically activated as soon as you put the car into reverse. It is important that the reversing camera has an ECE test mark. Only then is it approved for road traffic. Reversing cameras with lines show where your vehicle is going with your current steering wheel position. This makes them particularly useful for tight parking spaces. So that the camera can also help you at night, you should get a reversing camera with LED night vision function. Here, LEDs ensure sufficient lighting even at night.The right resolution Both reversing cameras and the associated displays are available in different resolutions. If you want to see a razor-sharp image, you should buy a system with a higher resolution. If a simpler image is enough for you, you can also go for a lower resolution - which is often a little cheaper. The most important things about reversing cameras in summary Installing a reversing camera is particularly useful for safety reasons. Not only does it help when parking, but you can also spot children playing when reversing, for example, much earlier. Here we have summarized the most important things about retrofitting a reversing camera for you. Retrofitting a reversing camera is quite easy even for laypeople. There are wireless and wired reversing cameras. While wireless reversing cameras are particularly easy to install, wired ones are usually cheaper and less prone to failure. As a rule, reversing cameras come with an extra display. You can attach this to the dashboard or windshield. Some wireless reversing cameras use the screen of your smartphone as a display. Some can also be connected to the screen of the car radio. Most reversing cameras are attached to the license plate holder and connected to the rear lights. This is how they get power and the camera is automatically activated as soon as you put the car into reverse. It is important that the reversing camera has an ECE test mark. Only then is it approved for road traffic. Reversing cameras with lines show where your vehicle is going with your current steering wheel position. This makes them particularly useful for tight parking spaces. So that the camera can also help you at night, you should get a reversing camera with LED night vision function. Here, LEDs ensure sufficient lighting even at night.You can attach this to the dashboard or windshield. Some wireless reversing cameras use the screen of your smartphone as a display. Some can also be connected to the screen of the car radio. Most reversing cameras are attached to the license plate holder and connected to the taillights. This is how they get power and the camera is automatically activated as soon as you put the car into reverse. It is important that the reversing camera has an ECE test mark. Only then is it approved for road traffic. Reversing cameras with lines show where your vehicle is going with your current steering wheel position. This makes them particularly useful for tight parking spaces. So that the camera can also help you at night, you should get a reversing camera with LED night vision function. Here, LEDs ensure sufficient lighting even at night.You can attach this to the dashboard or windshield. Some wireless reversing cameras use the screen of your smartphone as a display. Some can also be connected to the screen of the car radio. Most reversing cameras are attached to the license plate holder and connected to the taillights. This is how they get power and the camera is automatically activated as soon as you put the car into reverse. It is important that the reversing camera has an ECE test mark. Only then is it approved for road traffic. Reversing cameras with lines show where your vehicle is going with your current steering wheel position. This makes them particularly useful for tight parking spaces. So that the camera can also help you at night, you should get a reversing camera with LED night vision function. Here, LEDs ensure sufficient lighting even at night."
Comfort systems	Window regulator			"Electric window lifters have become a popular standard in car comfort. Simply raising and lowering the windows allows the driver to concentrate on the traffic and regulate the supply of fresh air while driving. The switches required for this are usually located in the armrests, but can also be installed in the center console or dashboard. The windows can be lowered and extended again at the push of a button. Structure of an electric window lifter The proverbial pivot point of an electric window lifter is of course the electric motor, which moves the sliding blocks on the guide rails via cables or rods. The window sits on the sliding blocks and follows the movement, allowing it to be moved up and down. The electronics measure the torque of the electric motor to avoid excessive forces and to ensure anti-pinch protection. In early versions of electric window lifters, this was solved using friction clutches, because serious accidents made appropriate protection necessary. Replacing the window regulator Replacing defective window regulators requires experience and patience and can be a fiddly job depending on the vehicle. The door panel must be dismantled and the base plate removed. The seals must not be damaged and of course the cables running through the door, such as those from the loudspeakers, must not be damaged. We will demonstrate the procedure using a VW Golf IV as an example. It is also advisable to work in pairs."
Comfort systems	Window regulator (universal)			"Electric windows are a comfort feature that can now be found in every new car. However, if you own an older car, you usually have to crank them. This may be quite charming for a classic car that is a well-kept favorite, but if you use your vehicle actively and focus on easy handling and functionality, you should think about retrofitting electric windows. Retrofit kit for electric windows Retrofitting electric windows In our shop you will find inexpensive retrofit kits that contain all the necessary parts as a set. This of course includes the winder motors that drive the electric windows. They are then controlled via the control panel. Thanks to numerous cables and a wide range of adapters, the window lifter kit is suitable for almost every car. However, installation usually requires a lot of time as well as manual skill. The interior paneling of the doors is removed and the motors must be adjusted so that the windows can be opened and closed completely. We recommend that you have this work carried out in a qualified specialist workshop."
Comfort systems	Cruise control system			"Cruise control is a comfort system that relieves the driver, particularly on long journeys, and invites you to cruise in a relaxed manner. The term cruise control is the brand name of Daimler AG, which made the system popular in Europe. Other manufacturers such as Porsche and BMW take a similar approach in their vehicles and call the cruise control system Tempostat, Tempopilot or Cruise Control, although technical progress has now led to Adaptive Cruise Control. This refers to cruise control systems that automatically maintain a certain distance from the vehicle in front and regulate the speed accordingly if, for example, another car changes into your lane. Steering column switch as a control element Safety in cruise control systems The cruise control system is designed to relieve the driver, but the driver is still responsible for his car and must be able to take control at all times. For this reason, cruise control systems switch off immediately as soon as the accelerator, brake or clutch pedal is pressed. Once the situation has been mastered, the system must be activated again. This is usually done using a corresponding steering column switch. You can buy corresponding control elements and switches for clutch operation at kfzteile24.de at reasonable prices."
Comfort systems	Motor/Relay/Switch			"Due to ongoing technical progress, we have become so accustomed to comfort systems that we only realise they exist when they fail. Electric windows are a matter of course in cars these days, but a few years ago you still had to crank them. Electrically adjustable side mirrors, central locking systems, heated rear windows and cruise control systems also make life more pleasant. Even fuel filler flap releases contribute to car comfort. At kfzteile24 you will find the right spare parts for all of these systems. Electric motor window lifter Large selection of spare parts We offer you switches, relays and electric motors, among other things, so that the car windows can be opened and closed at the touch of a button. We also offer actuators for side mirrors and central locking. Switches and relays for the cruise control or rear window complete our range, whereby switches usually refer to control elements for the cockpit, while relays are electrical switching components that are activated by a control circuit and open or close the control circuit."
Comfort systems	Motor/Relay/Switch	Window regulator		"The windows of a car have undergone development like all other parts of the automobile. While the first motor vehicles had no windows at all and drove without a top, mobile homes were soon developed that had a roof and windows. They were usually permanently installed and could not be lowered. However, since the supply of air to the interior had to be guaranteed while driving, folding windows were initially used. Classics such as the Citroen 2CV, also known as the Duck, or the Fiat Nuova 500 had such folding windows. The Trabant, on the other hand, already offered the option of winding down the windows. Even today, hobby vehicles with manual window lifters are still on our roads, but the majority of all cars now have electric windows. Motor for electric window lifters Switches, relays and electric motors for the electric window lifters Electric window lifters allow the windows to be opened and closed at the push of a button. The corresponding switches are usually installed in the armrest of the door, but can also be placed in the dashboard or center console. They often allow the driver to control all windows, while the passengers can only control the position of their own window. The signal from the respective switch is transmitted to an electric motor in the door, which can move the window up and down using a lifting rod. Modern window regulators also offer anti-pinch protection and stop as soon as the forces become too great."
Comfort systems	Motor/Relay/Switch	Cruise control system		"The cruise control system (GRA) is a comfort system that keeps the car at a speed set by the driver. This enables relaxed driving even on longer journeys. Motorways and well-developed federal highways are particularly suitable for use with the system. Depending on the manufacturer, the cruise control system can have different names. The brand name of Daimler AG (Cruise Control) is also often used colloquially as a synonym for the GRA. Other names are Tempostat, Tempopilot or Cruise Control. Switch for clutch operation What is the function of the switch for clutch operation? The cruise control is automatically interrupted as soon as the driver presses the accelerator or brake pedal. If the car is a car with a manual transmission, the operation of the clutch must also be taken into account and lead to the system being switched off. A corresponding switch sends the clutch operation signal to the control unit."
Comfort systems	Motor/Relay/Switch	rear window		"Technical progress does not stop at the rear window of a car either, and so they are now often equipped with a rear window heater. The thin wires are stretched horizontally across the window and energized when the heater is activated. The thin cross-section heats the conductors and the rear window is cleared of ice. The warm window also prevents moisture from forming in the form of condensation and blocking the view to the rear. Switch for the rear window heater Performance of a rear window heater The heater in the rear window is now usually standard in modern cars, with the wires either attached to the inside of the window or between two laminated glass panes. The power consumption is typically around 150 watts, which results in an additional consumption of around 0.15 liters per 100 kilometers. However, rear window heaters are not usually operated permanently, but can be switched off again using switches. The load circuit is often activated via a relay."
Comfort systems	Motor/Relay/Switch	Mirror		"The side mirrors on the car allow the driver to observe the traffic behind them to the right and left of the vehicle without having to turn their head backwards. This increases safety, especially when changing lanes. However, to ensure that the mirrors cover as large an area as possible, they should be correctly adjusted. Ideally, part of the vehicle should still be visible at all times and the horizon should be slightly above the middle of the mirror. The position of the mirror must be individually adjusted depending on the size of the driver and the driving position. Electric actuators and corresponding switches in the armrest of the driver's door or in the center console make this process much easier. After all, you no longer have to lean over to the passenger side mirror and can comfortably maintain your driving position. Switch for electrically adjustable mirror Actuators, relays and switches for electrically adjustable mirrors Like most comfort systems in a car, electrically adjustable mirrors are not a necessity, but they do make adjusting the side mirrors much easier. The driver can directly determine the mirror position using a button or switch panel, with the commands being implemented by actuators, i.e. electric motors. Depending on the vehicle, some cars also have the option of saving the seat, steering wheel and mirror positions. If the saved presets are selected, the mirrors adjust themselves automatically."
Comfort systems	Motor/Relay/Switch	Tank flap release		"The fuel filler flap protects the tank cap from external influences and thus prevents corrosion. Its shape follows the bodywork and is painted in the vehicle color. It can be locked to prevent it from being damaged while driving. In order to access the fuel tank filler neck, the fuel filler flap must first be unlocked. In older cars this is usually done manually. Newer vehicles have fuel filler flap releases, but these usually also work via a Bowden cable. Pressing the fuel filler flap release starts a servo motor and usually also displays the status of the lock. Switches for the fuel filler flap release can be installed individually or contain additional switches. For example, the trunk lid can also be unlocked electrically. Fuel filler flap release for a VW Passat Variant Changing the fuel filler flap release The fuel filler flap release must always be changed if the switch breaks off or the switch signal is no longer transmitted due to corrosion at the electrical contact points. These are inexpensive components that are usually made of plastic, but should be installed by a specialist workshop. The amount of work required varies depending on where the tank flap release is installed (dashboard, center console or armrest). If the lock on your tank flap no longer responds as expected, have the actuator checked as well."
Comfort systems	Motor/Relay/Switch	central locking system		"Central locking is now standard in modern vehicles. The system is so convenient that you hardly notice it in everyday life and you only realize the advantages when defects lead to a malfunction. This can also affect the door lock switch, which can be used to lock all closed doors in the car at the push of a button. This protects the vehicle against unauthorized access. Door lock switch Structure and function of the switch The door lock switch is extremely simple in design and consists of a plastic housing with a suitable electrical connection. By pressing the rocker arm or the corresponding switch surface, a signal is sent to the central locking control unit. This forwards the command to lock the doors to all locks and servomotors. Of course, the car can also be unlocked again using the switch. The switch is usually installed in the driver's armrest."
Comfort systems	pump			"The advantages of an auxiliary heater are obvious, as it not only ensures comfortably warm interior temperatures, but also heats the engine. The engine oil becomes smoother and the starting process is optimized. Since the working temperature of the catalytic converter is reached more quickly than with a cold start, an auxiliary heater can even save fuel and help to reduce initial emissions. As a comfort system, auxiliary heaters are not yet standard equipment in new cars in our latitudes, as is usually the case in Scandinavia, but they can be ordered for an additional charge and also retrofitted. A water pump is required for the system to work. Circulation pump for the auxiliary heater from Bosch Function of the circulation pump The auxiliary heater is usually integrated into the car's cooling circuit. Cold water flows to the auxiliary heater, which heats the coolant either electrically or by burning fuel. A circulation pump transports the warm cooling water to the heater cooler and from there it is blown into the interior by the fan. The engine is connected to the heater cooler and also heats up slowly. A parking heater is therefore dependent on a functioning cooling system with a corresponding pump. If your circulation pump is leaking or no longer working, you can find high-quality replacements at reasonable prices at kfzteile24."
Comfort systems	rain sensor			"Experiments with rain sensors were already being carried out in the 1960s. Cadillac initially designed the roof of a convertible to close automatically when it rained. Even though the system did not initially meet with great demand, the basic idea survived. In 1994, Peugeot equipped a car with rain sensors as standard, which could automatically operate the windshield wipers. This convenience feature was then taken up by other manufacturers and sometimes combined with twilight sensors, which also activate the lights. How a rain sensor works Image: Puppet user @wikimedia.org (CC BY 3.0) How a rain sensor works The rain sensor is about the size of a 1-cent piece and is often located in the base of the rear-view mirror. This is attached to the car's windshield. An LED illuminates the window, which reflects the light to a sensor. When the window is dry, the entire amount of light is reflected back from the window due to the angle of incidence and is registered by a phototransistor. However, if the window is wetted with water, the refractive index changes, causing some of the light to be scattered. From the difference to total reflection, the control unit can calculate how much water is in the measuring area. Using this information, the control unit can activate the windshield wipers and close the windows if necessary."
Comfort systems	Seat heating			"Seat heating in the car is a noble feature that contributes to well-being on cold days and thus even contributes to safety. A relaxed driver can follow the traffic more attentively and is not hindered by coats and jackets. Despite these advantages, seat heating is not yet fitted as standard in all new vehicles and in some cases cannot even be purchased as an option. However, if your car has seat heating, it should of course work. However, you can buy switches and control units from us at a reasonable price if required. Switches for seat heating Alternatives to seat heating Heating pads are of course not as comfortable and inconspicuous as seat heating, but they work in a similar way and offer the same advantages at a much lower cost. Electric current is passed through the heating wires via the cigarette lighter, which heat up and release the energy in the form of heat. In some cases, additional massage motors can also be activated."
Comfort systems	central locking system			"A central locking system offers the advantage of being able to lock and unlock all the doors and the tailgate of a car at once. This can be done either by turning the key or, much more frequently, by a simple radio command from the key. The car can also be locked from inside the car by pressing the door lock or a corresponding switch. The corresponding switches are usually located in the door. The central locking system consists of several elements that have to work perfectly together. If a part is defective, you can buy a suitable replacement at kfzteile24.de at a reasonable price. Central locking actuator Structure and function of a central locking system The central locking system, also known as ZV for short, always consists of actuators, switches, a control unit and relays. Since the actuators were also operated pneumatically in the past, vacuum pumps are sometimes necessary. Modern vehicles, on the other hand, have actuators with electric motors that are activated directly by the control unit. To prevent the occupants from being attacked when the vehicle is stationary, modern central locking systems automatically lock the vehicle when the speed falls below around 8 km/h. When the vehicle is moving, they automatically unlock again to enable escape from the vehicle in the event of an accident. Problems with the central locking system are usually complex and must be narrowed down by an experienced workshop to avoid the unnecessary replacement of parts."
Comfort systems	Central locking (universal)			"The advantages of central locking only become apparent when you, as the owner and lover of older cars, have to do without it. Not only is there no remote control, but all doors and the trunk have to be locked separately. This inevitably increases the risk of forgetting a way into the vehicle, thereby risking insurance cover through gross negligence. Accidentally locking the key in the ignition is also a more common problem in older vehicles due to the lack of warning mechanisms. Central locking from JOM Retrofitting central locking A retrofitted central locking system usually contains four locks for the doors, cables and fastening parts, a control unit and the radio keys. These are of course only important for opening and closing the vehicle, because the ignition key still has to be carried. Nevertheless, central locking offers many advantages. The doors can be opened or locked without any problems, even when you are carrying heavy items. There is no need for annoying fiddling with the door locks. If installed correctly, you can be sure that the vehicle is locked by the flashing indicators and a distinctive noise. By the way: If the tailgate is also to be opened using the remote key, a corresponding actuator or pull motor is required."
Fuel preparation	Fuel preparation			"Under the keyword fuel preparation, you will find all the parts required for the mixture formation in your engine at kfzteile24. The task of the system and the components involved is to produce a fuel-air mixture that matches the current operating state of the engine in terms of its mixture amount (quantity) and mixture composition (quality). The fuel should burn completely. However, the different goals of fuel preparation or mixture formation are opposite and can only be optimized by electronic control. For the car and driver, high performance and torque are important, as are low consumption and good exhaust emissions. Injection valve for a VW Golf 3, an air mass meter from Bremi The mixture ratio In the desired stoichiometric operation, all of the fuel, i.e. all of the carbon and hydrogen atoms, are oxidized with the oxygen in the air. This produces carbon dioxide and water and, of course, heat. The reaction moves the piston in the cylinder and the energy can be converted into a rotary motion for driving wheels and auxiliary units such as the water pump or the generator. This theoretical mixture ratio can differ from the practical mixture ratio depending on the operating state of the engine. If not all of the fuel can be burned, the mixture is rich. If there is an excess of air, it is referred to as a ""lean"" mixture. The ratio between the air mass supplied and the theoretical air requirement is defined as the lambda air ratio and can be measured using a lambda probe in the exhaust gas flow, whereby the catalyst can only neutralize a large proportion of the harmful gases in a narrow lambda window around the value lambda=1. Mixture composition and mixture formation In order to be able to burn as residue-free as possible, the fuel-air mixture should be as homogeneous as possible, i.e. it should either be injected into the combustion chamber already well mixed or have enough time to distribute evenly. An early injection time makes this possible. If the composition is different, this is referred to as a stratified charge or a heterogeneous mixture. The location of the injection itself is also not uniform and differs from car to car. External mixture formation The fuel is injected into the intake manifold, i.e. in front of the still closed intake valve. This allows enough time for the fuel and air to mix well. The power is controlled by the throttle valve, which determines the amount of air taken in (quantity control). Internal mixture formation The fuel is injected directly into the combustion chamber and turbulence is intended to help it to mix well with the intake air. However, in the short time available, a heterogeneous mixture is usually created. The power is controlled by the injection quantity,which changes the mixture composition (quality control). Function of the carburettor Modern and efficient injection systems have replaced the carburettor in automobile construction, but they can still be found in vintage and classic cars as well as motorcycles. It also has the task of mixing fuel and air to produce a combustible mixture. The intake stroke of the cylinder is used for this. The carburettor in its simplest form can be imagined as a narrowing air funnel. The reduction in cross-section accelerates the air flow so that fuel particles are entrained from the fuel outlet pipe at the narrowest point. The aerosol that forms is finely atomized in the mixing chamber and finally fed to the cylinders via the throttle valve. The position of the throttle valve also determines the engine power and speed (quantity control)."
Fuel preparation	Exhaust gas purification			"Since the Clean Air Act was passed in 1963, environmental protection has played an increasingly important role in automobile manufacturing. Exhaust gas purification is particularly important. The background to this was the air pollution in California's metropolitan areas of San Francisco and Los Angeles. The California Air Resource Board (CARB), which was founded in this context, has since made a name for itself worldwide through strict legislative proposals, which also had a significant influence on the European Union's exhaust gas standard. The strict limits for the emission of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxide and particles in the Euro 5 and Euro 6 standards can only be achieved through a combination of different measures. EGR valve from Valeo Measures to reduce pollutants Pollutant reduction does not only focus on exhaust gas purification through exhaust gas recirculation and the conversion of pollutants in the catalytic converter, but starts much earlier. Low-sulfur, unleaded fuels are just as important as reducing the weight of the car. The mixture formation and compression in the engine are also constantly being further developed and optimized. The aim is to completely burn the injected fuel, but in practice this optimal state cannot be achieved. However, with increasingly complex injection systems, map-controlled ignition and boost pressure control, charge air cooling or selective cylinder deactivation, it is possible to significantly improve the quality of the exhaust gas. Cooler for exhaust gas recirculation Exhaust gas recirculation Since, despite modern technology, not all hydrocarbons are completely burned in current combustion engines, some of the exhaust gases are fed back into the intake manifold after the exhaust manifold and thus fed back into the fuel-air mixture. The exhaust gas recirculation system lowers the temperature in the cylinder because the exhaust gas can no longer take part in the combustion, and thus significantly reduces nitrogen oxide pollution. However, the system has physical limits because if exhaust gas recirculation is too high (over 20%), fuel consumption increases and the smoothness of the engine decreases noticeably. Exhaust gas recirculation is therefore only used in engines that are at operating temperature and in the partial load range around lambda = 1. Secondary air pump for a VW Golf IV Secondary air system Secondary air systems (SLS) are used to minimize the emission of hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide in gasoline engines, particularly after cold starts and during the warm-up phase. They usually consist of a secondary air pump that introduces ambient air into the exhaust system through the secondary air valve. The hot exhaust gases cause the oxygen in the air to react exothermically with unburned exhaust gas components, resulting in thermal afterburning. The downstream catalytic converter thus reaches its operating temperature more quickly.In addition, since the fuel-air mixture is injected with excess fuel when the engine is cold-started and warmed up, a lack of oxygen would prevent the catalytic reaction. The necessary oxygen must therefore be supplied. Depending on the design, this usually takes place directly after the exhaust valves up to just before the catalytic converter."
Fuel preparation	Exhaust gas purification	Exhaust gas recirculation		"Exhaust gas recirculation reduces nitrogen oxide emissions from combustion engines and thus helps to meet increasingly strict emission standards that can no longer be met by pure exhaust gas aftertreatment in the catalytic converter. In particular, the reduction in NOx limits from 180 mg/km to 80 mg/km for diesel vehicles since the Euro 6 standard came into force underscores the importance of exhaust gas recirculation. But it is not only useful for diesel. Exhaust gas recirculation reduces charge exchange losses in gasoline engines and reduces fuel consumption, especially in the partial load range. an EGR valve from Pierburg How exhaust gas recirculation works With exhaust gas recirculation, part of the exhaust gas is fed into the intake air, which reduces the oxygen concentration. Less fuel is then injected so that it can burn completely. However, the amount of fuel influences the reaction speed and the combustion temperature. Exhaust gas recirculation reduces both values ??and thus the emission of nitrogen oxides. The reduction can be as much as 40%. In order to make even greater use of the effect, coolers are sometimes used for the recirculated exhaust gas. However, there are physical limits to this principle, as as soon as more than 20% of the exhaust gases re-enter the combustion chamber, fuel consumption increases significantly and the engine runs irregularly. Objectives for diesel Since the Euro 6 standard, diesel vehicles have had to meet both strict nitrogen oxide limits and already high requirements for particle emissions. This conflict of objectives can only be regulated by sophisticated engine management, as the soot-producing exhaust gas recirculation must be reduced as the engine load increases in order not to exceed the particle emission limits. The exhaust gas recirculation valves used should therefore be able to implement the rapid change. Objectives for gasoline engines In contrast to diesel, the focus of exhaust gas recirculation in gasoline engines is not on reducing pollutants, but on reducing fuel consumption. This is achieved by reducing charge exchange losses in the partial load range. The negative pressure in the intake duct generated by the throttle valve decreases and the charge exchange work decreases. With direct injection, exhaust gas recirculation works in a similar way to diesel."
Fuel preparation	Exhaust gas purification	Exhaust gas recirculation	EGR valve/intake manifold	"The EGR valve is the key component of exhaust gas recirculation. It ensures that part of the exhaust gas flow is guided to the intake pipe and then back into the combustion chamber. This reduces the oxygen content, which results in a reduction in the amount of fuel injected. The combustion temperature drops and with it the nitrogen oxide emissions. Since the exhaust gas components no longer participate in combustion, they also reduce the temperature by absorbing heat. Exhaust gas recirculation can be achieved internally by the valve control. The intake valve opens shortly after the power stroke, which leads to the exhaust gases mixing with the incoming air. However, this form is not used in diesel vehicles, as they have hardly any valve overlap and are also turbocharged. EGR valve from Hella for a Ford Focus II station wagon External exhaust gas recirculation using an EGR valve Exhaust gas recirculation using an EGR valve is an important measure in the design of diesel engines in order to be able to meet the nitrogen oxide limits of the strict Euro 6 standard. This is basically a connection between the exhaust pipe and the intake pipe, the cross-section of which is regulated by the engine control system. The control is necessary because the reduction of nitrogen oxides conflicts with the reduction of soot particles. Low combustion temperatures ensure low nitrogen oxide emissions, but soot pollution increases. Carbon monoxide and unburned hydrocarbons also occur more frequently. The solution can be to close the EGR valve at low combustion chamber temperatures (cold start) and when engine loads increase. Another approach is to use high combustion chamber temperatures to avoid the formation of soot particles and to minimize the limits for unburned hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide and to convert the nitrogen oxide downstream into nitrogen and water using a special SCR catalyst. High-pressure EGR valve If the exhaust gas is taken upstream of the turbocharger, it is called a high-pressure EGR valve. The corresponding exhaust gas is fed into the compressed fresh air after the turbine wheel. This EGR path is usually cooled in vehicles from the Euro 4 standard. A pressure control flap can increase the EGR rate by creating a greater pressure gradient between the intake manifold and the exhaust port in turbocharged engines. Low-pressure EGR valve With this EGR valve, the exhaust gas is taken after the turbocharger and the diesel particulate filter and fed into the fresh air before compression by the turbine wheel. This has a number of advantages. The cooler and less particulate exhaust gas enables better filling, the turbocharger can respond better to load changes and the throttle requirement is reduced by the pressure control flap."
Fuel preparation	Exhaust gas purification	Exhaust gas recirculation	Pressure transducer	"Pressure converters are responsible for controlling the EGR valve, i.e. regulating the EGR rate depending on the speed, engine temperature, boost pressure and intake air temperature. They are connected to the EGR valve via a vacuum hose and of course also have electrical connections so that the control unit can issue the corresponding commands. Since exhaust gas recirculation reduces nitrogen oxide emissions but increases particle emissions, rapid adjustment of the EGR rate is very important. Pressure converters must therefore be able to implement necessary changes as quickly as possible. Pressure converter for the EGR valve Different pressure converters Depending on how exhaust gas recirculation is implemented, the control of the system also differs. Mechanical pressure converters are just as conceivable as electro-pneumatic pressure converters and electric actuators. The pressure converters create a control pressure from negative pressure and atmospheric pressure, which is used to continuously adjust pneumatic actuators in the EGR valve. They tend to be able to react more quickly than electric motors. However, electric motors offer other advantages. For example, after the engine is switched off, they can run a cleaning program in which the EGR valve is fully opened and closed. This reduces the build-up of soot or oil vapors. Finally, the EGR valve sticking is a common defect in exhaust gas recirculation."
Fuel preparation	Exhaust gas purification	Exhaust gas recirculation	cooler	"An exhaust gas recirculation cooler or EGR cooler has the task of cooling down the exhaust gas diverted by the EGR valve. This is mixed with the fresh air in the intake pipe and is intended to lower the combustion temperature in the cylinder. This happens on the one hand because the oxygen content decreases and less fuel is injected and on the other hand because the exhaust particles no longer take part in the combustion. Instead, they even absorb heat. The lower combustion temperature reduces nitrogen oxides. This effect can be further increased by cooling the exhaust gases beforehand. The technology is necessary due to increasingly strict emission standards. The emission limit for NOx> fell from 180 mg/km to just 80 mg/km in the Euro 6 standard. EGR cooler from Valeo Structure of an EGR cooler The EGR cooler consists of a metal pipe and is installed behind the EGR valve. The diverted exhaust gas flows through the cooler, which is integrated into the car's normal cooling circuit. The coolant absorbs the heat from the hot exhaust gases and then releases it again at the radiator in the front of the vehicle. EGR coolers are a relatively new development that only became widespread with the introduction of the Euro 4 standard. The first versions are therefore very vulnerable. Just like EGR valves, oil vapors and soot particles can clog the EGR cooler, which not only worsens the exhaust emissions, but also leads to a loss of performance and engine jerking. Also make sure that the cooling lines are flexible and have no cracks or kinks."
Fuel preparation	Exhaust gas purification	Secondary air injection		"Secondary air injection or the secondary air system (SLS) is the introduction of air into the exhaust tract of a car. It helps to quickly bring the catalytic converter up to operating temperature during a cold start. This is necessary because, particularly when the engine is cold, there are many unburned hydrocarbons and poisonous carbon monoxide in the exhaust gas stream that cannot be neutralized by the exhaust gas aftertreatment. The catalytic reaction requires a minimum temperature of 350  C. The working temperature is only reached at around 500  C. By introducing air, parts of the unburned fuel react with the oxygen in a thermal afterburning. This exothermic reaction generates heat. Secondary air pump for a VW Golf IV Advantages of a secondary air system Secondary air injection offers significant advantages. On the one hand, part of the unburned fuel in the exhaust gas stream is oxidized and can therefore not enter the environment, and on the other hand, the heat generated helps to start the catalytic process. This usually only takes a few seconds instead of 3 to 5 minutes without a secondary air system. The addition of oxygen is important for another reason. During a cold start, the fuel-air mixture is injected substoichiometrically, i.e. with an excess of fuel. However, oxygen is necessary in order to be able to neutralise the harmful exhaust gas components. The secondary air injection is usually limited in time. As soon as the necessary temperatures are reached and the fuel-air mixture has been regulated to a value around lambda=1, the system can be stopped. Types of secondary air injection In many cases, a secondary air pump is used to supply the necessary air during a cold start. It is usually connected to the air filter box and brings the air into the exhaust tract through the secondary air valve. The pump is usually operated electrically, but mechanical variants driven by the engine were also common in the past. The secondary air valve, on the other hand, is often controlled pneumatically by negative and positive pressure, with electromagnetic actuation offering the advantage of a faster reaction time when opening and closing. Passive secondary air systems, on the other hand, do not require a separate pump and instead only work through the negative pressure phases in the exhaust gas flow. Such systems are very low-maintenance."
Fuel preparation	Exhaust gas purification	Secondary air injection	Secondary air pump	"The secondary air pump is, alongside the secondary air valve, the main component of a secondary air system. The term ""secondary"" indicates that the air supply takes place downstream of the engine. In concrete terms, this means that the secondary air pump usually sucks in air in the air filter box and pumps it through the open valve into the exhaust tract in front of the catalytic converter. The oxygen contained in the air can react with unburned hydrocarbon particles in the exhaust gas flow. In this process of thermal afterburning, chemical energy is converted into heat. The exhaust gas is heated and brings the catalytic converter up to temperature much more quickly than if there were no secondary air pump. The additional oxygen supply naturally reduces the hydrocarbon content in the exhaust gas, which is particularly important in the cold start phase of an engine. Secondary air pump for VW Golf 4 Replacing a defective secondary air pump The secondary air pump is usually an elongated, round component that is connected to the air filter via an air hose or a line. An electric motor controlled by the control unit drives the pump, which leads to the secondary air valve on the pressure side. If the amount of air delivered is not sufficient, this is detected by the on-board diagnostics and displayed via the corresponding indicator light. Since this is a defect in the general inspection, you should get to the bottom of the problem. First check the system for leaks. The secondary air valve can also be the cause of the error, because if it can no longer be opened, no air can be blown in. If the pump is affected, you will often hear screeching noises caused by friction. In this case, replacing it is usually the only solution. Depending on the position of the pump, this is also possible for hobby mechanics."
Fuel preparation	Mixture preparation			"Mixture preparation or mixture formation is the mixing of fuel with air. Oxygen is necessary so that the combustion process can take place in the cylinder and the chemical energy stored in the fuel is released as light, pressure and heat during oxidation. The energy moves the pistons, which drive the crankshaft via connecting rods. The aim of mixture formation is to provide a sufficient amount of fuel and air in every operating state, but at the same time to work as efficiently as possible in order to save fuel and protect the environment. Pressure control valve for a common rail injection system Cold start When the engine is cold, only a small part of the fuel components evaporate. The rest condenses instead on the intake manifold or the cylinder walls. In order for the mixture to be ignitable, the amount of fuel injected must therefore be greatly increased. In contrast to the stoichiometric mixture ratio, particularly ""rich"" mixtures are required for this. Warming up The engine warms up slowly as it runs. Condensation losses on the cylinder walls and intake manifold decrease and the air content can increase. This continues until the fuel-air mixture approaches the stoichiometric mixture ratio. Full load For maximum power output, the fuel-air mixture is enriched, i.e. more fuel is injected. Full load is when the throttle valve is fully open. In this driving state, the control unit aims for a lambda value of 0.85 to 0.95. In this range, the most torque can be generated at the expense of consumption. How injection systems work The injection pump is the heart of modern injection systems. It increases the fuel pressure and, depending on the design, presses the fuel through one or more injection valves. The fuel is finely atomized and mixes with air to finally burn in the cylinder. The finer the fuel droplets, the more efficient this process is. The result is good consumption and exhaust emissions, but particulate matter pollution also increases because the ever smaller particles are less easy to filter out of the exhaust gas. The injection itself can be solved in different technical ways and can either take place before the throttle valve in the intake manifold or after the throttle valve. In this case, several injection valves are usually used, which are operated at the same pressure via a common distributor pipe (common rail). If the fuel is injected directly into the combustion chamber, this is called direct injection and internal mixture formation. The process has the advantage that disruptive influences such as deposits on the pipe walls are avoided. However, the corresponding systems are quite expensive due to the complex control system."
Fuel preparation	Mixture preparation	Parking device		"As is well known, diesel engines spontaneously ignite when the fuel-air mixture is compressed. But how do you turn off such a system? By blocking the flow of fuel, of course. This task is carried out by so-called shut-off devices. They can be implemented either mechanically or electrically, although mechanical shut-off devices are only relevant for classic and vintage cars. With electrical shutdown, the fuel supply is kept open by pull or push magnets. If the engine is switched off, the magnetic field of the electromagnet collapses. The mechanical force of a return spring closes the bore and more fuel can flow in. The engine stops. Shut-off device for the injection system Shut-off devices as a safety element The amount of fuel delivered is usually already determined by the quantity control unit in the fuel feed pump, i.e. the fuel supply should already be interrupted when the ignition is switched off. The shut-off device therefore functions purely as a safety element. If the system fails, a defect in the shut-off device can mean that the engine will not stop, even if the ignition key has been removed. It is conceivable, for example, that the valve's return spring is broken or that a fault current is preventing the electromagnet from being de-energized, so that it cannot close. A new shut-off device can solve the problem."
Fuel preparation	Mixture preparation	poetry		"Seals play a role in almost all areas of the engine and fuel preparation is no exception. Seals on the injection pump and sealing rings on the injection valves and nozzle holders are essential to ensure that the valuable liquid cannot leak despite high pressure. Depending on where they are used, they are made of rubber, plastic or metal such as copper. Like almost all seals, the sealing rings of the injection system are inexpensive, but replacing them can be expensive due to the high time required. Seals are mainly replaced when defective parts are replaced. For example, a new set of seals is used when the injection pump and the injection valves need to be replaced. Sealing ring for an injection valve Changing the seals The injection system of modern vehicles in particular is a complex system of coordinated parts. Any intervention should therefore be carried out by a qualified specialist workshop in order to avoid any problems such as uneven engine running or poor exhaust emissions. Only carry out any repairs yourself if you have the necessary knowledge and the right tools."
Fuel preparation	Mixture preparation	Throttle valve/connector/vacuum line		"The position of the throttle valve can be used to regulate the performance of an engine. It is usually located in the intake pipe between the air filter and intake manifold in a separate housing known as a throttle valve body. The position of the throttle valve in the pipe cross-section determines how much air is sucked in by the descending piston using negative pressure. The amount of fuel that can be injected is in turn derived from the amount of air available. This is known as quantitative mixture regulation. The control unit usually aims for a stoichiometric mixture ratio of lambda=1, in which just as much fuel is supplied as can be completely burned by the available oxygen. A special form of throttle valve is the individual throttle, where the amount of air can be determined separately for each cylinder. Due to the associated design effort, these throttle valves are only used in racing engines and particularly sporty production vehicles. Throttle valve from Bosch for a Peugeot 206 CC Position of the throttle valve The throttle valve is ultimately just a circular piece of metal, but its position has a significant impact on the behavior of the engine. If too little air gets into the combustion chamber, the engine will stutter and jerk. In the worst case, the engine may even stall. To prevent this from happening, the position of the throttle valve in modern vehicles is determined directly by the control unit. This regulates the throttle valve via the electric motor of the control valve actuator, which is often also referred to as the idle speed controller or idle control valve, so that the actual speed of the engine corresponds to the target value in the respective driving situation. Depending on the system, an idle controller may also be used, which represents an air duct around the closed throttle valve. The air flow in the duct can be regulated using pulse-width modulated signals from the control unit. When the air conditioning is switched on or during a cold start, for example, a higher speed than usual is necessary when idling. Conversely, the whole technology also means that the position of the accelerator pedal has no direct influence on the position of the throttle valve, but is simply interpreted by the control unit. The existing systems then implement this."
Fuel preparation	Mixture preparation	Injection unit		"With central injection, also known as single point injection, the fuel is sprayed through the injection unit into the throttle body in front of the throttle valve. There it mixes with the intake air cleaned by the air filter and is transported through the open throttle valve into the intake manifold before it finally reaches the cylinders through the open inlet valves. The aim is to produce a fuel-air mixture that is as homogeneous as possible in every operating state and that burns evenly. This is achieved by atomizing the fuel as finely as possible at the central injection valve and creating corresponding turbulence due to the high pressure. Central injection nozzle of a single-point intake manifold injection Image: Florian Lidner @wikimedia.org (CC BY 2.5) Structure of a central injection valve The fuel feed pump presses the fuel through the supply line into the injection unit, the main component of which is the central injection valve. This consists of a pintle valve with a pointed valve needle that is pressed firmly onto the valve opening by a spring. At the end of the spring there is a magnet armature and a magnet winding that can open the pintle valve by means of a current flow. The interaction of fuel pressure and the effect of the electromagnet overcomes the spring force and the pintle valve is raised by around 0.06 mm. The injection takes place in a cone shape around the injection pin, which enables good atomization. However, this is still not enough to produce a homogeneous mixture, because parts of the fuel condense on the pipes and cylinder walls, especially during cold starts. Edge turbulence and long pipes can have a negative effect on mixture formation. On the other hand, the fuel has plenty of time to mix with the air and the design is much simpler and therefore cheaper than comparable multi-point injection systems."
Fuel preparation	Mixture preparation	Injector/Injector nozzle/Nozzle assembly/PDE		"The fuel can be injected using either single-point or multi-point injection. Multi-point injection has the advantage that each cylinder has its own injection valve. The advantage is that there is less wall film formation when the engine is cold, as the injection usually takes place directly in front of the intake valves. This saves fuel and improves exhaust emissions. Since there are no longer any angled pipes in the way, mixing with the intake air can also be optimized, i.e. the fuel-air mixture reaches the combustion chamber more homogeneously and can burn better. Injection valve from Bosch Injection nozzles for common rail and pump-nozzle systems High pressures during fuel injection have the advantage that the fuel mist is very finely atomized and mixes well with the intake air. A mixture that is as homogeneous as possible is the prerequisite for efficient combustion. Common rail technology in particular has established itself as an injection method. The injection valves are connected to a common fuel distribution pipe into which the fuel is pressed by a high-pressure pump. The technology now allows injection pressures of up to 3,000 bar, which is roughly equivalent to PDE systems. The advantage of common rail technology, however, is that the injection timing can be controlled electronically, while a pump-nozzle injector is operated directly by the camshaft. Pre- and post-injections for better combustion and smoother engine running are therefore only possible to a limited extent with pump-nozzle systems. However, the energy for the pressure build-up of the injection pump must be provided at a constant level."
Fuel preparation	Mixture preparation	Individual parts nozzle holder/nozzle		"The nozzle holder, also called the nozzle block, houses the injection nozzle and is supplied with fuel via the injection pump and the corresponding fuel lines. Its job is to hold and guide the nozzle and to tension it using a compression spring and pressure bolt. This pressure causes the nozzle needle to close the nozzle outlet opening so that no fuel can escape. Only when the fuel pressure becomes so high that the spring tension is overcome does the nozzle needle open the outlet opening and fuel is injected in a cone shape. The smaller the finely atomized fuel particles are and the more homogeneous the fuel-air mixture is, the more efficiently the combustion can take place. Injection nozzle in the nozzle holder Heat protection disk for a nozzle block Structure of a nozzle block The nozzle holder can be imagined as a housing with the fuel line and the fuel return (leak fuel) attached to the upper part. Inside there is usually a pressure adjustment disk, the compression spring, the pressure bolt, the intermediate disk and the nozzle needle in the nozzle body. Sometimes a rod filter is used, which is part of the pressure line inside the nozzle holder. The necessary injection pressure can be adjusted by the thickness of the pressure adjustment disk and thus the preload of the pressure spring. Seals or sealing rings for the nozzle holder are also required. They prevent fuel from escaping and also serve as heat protection. Fuel that has not been injected can flow back via the fuel return, also known as leak fuel. It absorbs heat and thus also cools the nozzle holder combination. Replacing parts of the nozzle holder When replacing defective nozzle holder parts, extreme care is required and experience is necessary. No dust or even dirt must get into the nozzle holder or onto the internal parts. When cleaning initially, you should also make sure never to use petrol or solvents, as this will remove the oil from the surface. However, it is sensitive and can begin to corrode even when exposed to humidity. Use suitable penetrating oil instead. The entire job should be left to professionals and is usually only carried out by special workshops."
Fuel preparation	Mixture preparation	Accelerator pedal/throttle		"The term accelerator pedal comes from the early days of automobile development, because the pedal regulated the throttle valve and thus the amount of air in the carburetor. The transmission took place mechanically via Bowden cables or rods. In modern cars, injection systems are used instead to form the mixture and the position of the throttle valve is regulated by the control unit. In technical literature, it is therefore referred to as an accelerator pedal. It is located in the driver's footwell and is usually operated with the right foot. However, a pedal relocation or alternative hand throttle may be necessary for people with physical disabilities. Next to it is the brake pedal, which is usually larger for safety reasons. Accelerator pedal from Bosch for a VW Golf IV Electronic accelerator pedal and suitable sensors The accelerator pedal can be mounted either hanging on a pivot point or standing in the car floor. A direct mechanical connection is no longer available in modern vehicles. Instead, the driver's gas request is determined by the accelerator pedal position. Potentiometers or Hall sensors measure the displacement of the accelerator pedal compared to the initial position and transmit the signals to the engine control unit. There they are interpreted depending on other control variables and finally implemented. Since the driver does not receive any feedback via the foot with electronic accelerator pedals, force feedback accelerator pedals are also a new development. They can vibrate and build up artificial counterpressure to encourage the driver to drive efficiently."
Fuel preparation	Mixture preparation	Throttle cable/rod		"The throttle cable or throttle linkage has the task of mechanically transmitting the accelerator pedal position to the throttle valve. The opening of the throttle valve determines the air flow in the throttle body and thus also the available combustion air. Since the control unit generally aims for a stoichiometric ratio between fuel and air, i.e. the ratio remains as constant as possible, the amount of air injected is also determined by the amount of air. This is referred to as quantitative mixture regulation. Disengaged throttle cable Electronic accelerator pedal displaces throttle cable and throttle linkage A throttle cable or throttle linkage is generally reserved for older vehicles such as vintage and classic cars, since the electronic accelerator pedal has become the norm in modern cars. The pedal position is determined by means of sensors and passed on to the control unit. This has the advantage that other control variables such as the engine temperature can also be taken into account. This reduces fuel consumption. The control unit is also able to react to all driving situations and operating conditions and can, for example, automatically increase the air supply by adjusting the throttle position at idle when additional consumers such as the air conditioning system are switched on."
Fuel preparation	Mixture preparation	Fuel injection pump/high pressure pump		"The injection pump is a positive displacement pump that delivers a defined volume of fuel per revolution, stroke or time, regardless of the pressure conditions. Different types of pumps can be used for this, depending on the injection system. High-pressure piston pumps are usually used as in-line injection pumps in commercial vehicles, i.e. the individual pump elements are each assigned to just one cylinder. Radial piston pumps are a variation of the principle. They are usually lubricated by the engine oil or sometimes even by their own oil sump. This makes these injection pumps suitable for fuels with poor lubricating properties, such as gasoline. In-line injection pumps are rarely used in diesel cars, however, as they have been replaced by pump-nozzle injectors and, above all, common rail systems. High-pressure pump for a common rail system Image: Stahlkocher @wikimedia.org (CC BY-SA 3.0) High-pressure pump of a common rail system Although the high-pressure pump of a common rail system is also called an injection pump, it lacks quantity and timing regulation. The pump only has to generate high pressure in the common distributor pipe of the injection valves, which in turn are opened electronically by the engine control. Modern high-pressure pumps generate a pressure of approx. 2,500 bar to 3,000 bar. For cost reasons, however, they are usually only lubricated by the diesel fuel itself. If this lubricating film breaks off, e.g. due to incorrect refueling with petrol, metal parts can come loose due to friction, destroying the entire injection system. The high pressure damages the injection valves in particular, which usually makes it necessary to completely replace the injection system. If you have accidentally put petrol in your diesel vehicle, do not start the engine under any circumstances. If this mishap does happen to you, you can buy a suitable injection pump cheaply from kfzteile24."
Fuel preparation	Mixture preparation	Idle/warm-up control		"The speed of an internal combustion engine can be regulated via the air flow that passes through the throttle valve. The more air that is available, the more fuel can be injected and burned (quantitative mixture regulation). The position of the throttle valve therefore has a major influence on the engine's power output and was previously determined mechanically by the accelerator pedal using a throttle cable or throttle linkage. In modern vehicles, the control unit takes over this function and regulates the throttle valve position using numerous parameters and sensor data. The system must recognize the necessary power; after all, the engine must not simply turn off when the vehicle is stopped. Idle speed controllers, also known as idle control valves, warm-up controllers or adjustment potentiometers are used to regulate idle speed. Idle control valve from Hella Task of idle control In order to minimize a car's fuel consumption, the engine speed when idling is defined by the vehicle manufacturer. However, different engine temperatures and connected consumers such as any heaters or air conditioning systems determine the power output. For example, internal resistance caused by viscous engine oil during cold starts must be overcome. The drive of the generator and air conditioning compressor also costs energy. The control unit must therefore constantly measure the speed and compare the actual value determined with the specified target value. If the speed measured on the crankshaft or camshaft is too low, the control unit adjusts it. This can be done using a throttle valve actuator, i.e. a servomotor. Another form of idle control is idle valve actuators, which can be thought of as a bypass. They bypass the closed throttle valve and can channel more or less air into the intake tract using pulse-width modulated signals."
Fuel preparation	Mixture preparation	Air mass meter/air flow meter		"The air mass meter is a further development of the air flow meter and is an indispensable part of modern engines. However, its function and how to diagnose problems are not completely clear to many car enthusiasts. In the following lines, we want to explain not only how to replace the air mass meter, but also how it works, which symptoms indicate a defect and how to test the sensor. Task of the air mass meter The air mass meter sends a voltage signal to the control unit which represents the air mass taken in by the engine. The sensor therefore has a direct influence on the mixture formation, as the aim is always to inject as much fuel as is needed for a stoichiometric fuel-air mixture. This means nothing other than that all of the fuel can be burned without leaving any oxygen. The stoichiometric mixture is relevant for downstream exhaust gas purification, as the 3-way catalytic converter can only work optimally if this ratio, also known as ?=1, is present. How an air mass meter works Air mass meters are installed in the intake tract behind the air filter and are based either on a heating wire or a hot film sensor on a ceramic carrier. In both cases, the air mass is determined by keeping the wire or the resistor at a constant temperature. The voltage required for this varies depending on the air mass flowing past, which has a cooling effect. Up to 1,000 measuring and control processes per second allow rapid voltage adjustment and injection that is appropriate to the driving situation."
Fuel preparation	Mixture preparation	Sensor/Probe		"In order to correctly determine the required injection quantity for the fuel in every driving situation and in all weather conditions, the control unit is dependent on the operating data acquisition of various probes and sensors. The main control variables are the speed and the load. They determine the basic injection quantity, which is refined using so-called correction variables. Sensors measure, among other things, the temperature of the engine and the intake air as well as the pressure in the environment and in the intake manifold. The position of the accelerator pedal is recorded, as is the position of the throttle valve and the camshaft position. All of this data combines to form an overall picture and enable the vehicle to be operated economically. Lambda sensor from Bosch for VW Golf III Speed ??sensor from Bosch for VW Golf III Redundancy through different sensors The numerous parameters of the different probes and sensors not only allow the control unit to determine the ideal fuel injection, but even make it possible to check sensor data for plausibility. For example, when measuring exhaust gases using a lambda sensor in front of the catalytic converter, there must be more oxygen in the exhaust gas than when measuring behind the catalytic converter, as it is ultimately used up by the catalytic reaction. If this is not the case, there is an error that is detected by the on-board diagnostics. The control sensor, catalytic converter or control sensor could be defective. The same applies to the speed measurement, which is usually measured on the crankshaft but can also be determined by the camshaft. The redundancy makes it easier to diagnose errors, but on the other hand it can also mean that the car can no longer be moved until the conflict between different sensor data has been resolved. More failures due to a variety of sensors? The sensor technology required in the automotive sector is not without controversy, as the system is more susceptible to failures due to its complexity. However, strict emissions standards and customer demands for low consumption can only be met if the engine control system also becomes increasingly intelligent. At the same time, consumer expectations in terms of safety and comfort are increasing. This tension between different and conflicting goals makes the development of a new car increasingly expensive. However, you can at least save on maintenance by buying defective sensors cheaply from kfzteile24."
Fuel preparation	Mixture preparation	Control unit		"The control unit, also known as the ECU (electronic control unit) or ECM (electronic control module), is the heart of the engine management system, as this is where all sensor data converges, is interpreted and used for mixture formation according to the programming. The control unit uses various actuators to regulate the engine speed according to the EVA principle (input, processing, output) and also reports when implausible data occurs. Depending on the severity of the fault, the control unit can either go into emergency mode and enrich the fuel-air mixture or stop the injection and bring the car to a standstill. ECM of a 1996 Chevrolet Beretta Image: Mgiardina09 @wikimedia.org (CC BY-SA 3.0) Control unit for a 1990 Geo Storm GSi Image: ldar Sagdejev @wikipedia.org (CC BY-SA 3.0) Triumph of electronic control units Until the 1980s, mechanical control concepts were widespread in the automotive sector, but due to increasingly strict emissions standards and rising fuel prices, electronic control units soon became indispensable. Technical progress has even made it possible to significantly optimize consumption, although additional comfort and safety systems require more and more engine power. At the same time, pollutant emissions have fallen, as the electronic control in conjunction with the catalytic converter can neutralize a large proportion of the carbon monoxide as well as the unburned hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides. Requirements for the control unit A control unit can of course only work effectively if it receives information about the vehicle, the environment and the operating status. Numerous probes and sensors therefore constantly collect data and pass this on to the control unit. Due to the variety of sensors and the necessary networking, a system bus is also necessary, which can be imagined as a common cable network that connects sensors, actuators and the control unit. Without the system bus, the necessary cabling would assume gigantic proportions, driving up the cost and weight of a car. The CAN bus, for example, developed by Bosch in cooperation with Intel, has found widespread use. It offers two different transmission rates, so that sensor signals and engine control commands can be transmitted much faster than is necessary for the electric windows, for example."
Fuel preparation	Mixture preparation	Valves/valve unit		"The injection system of a car is a complex system that also uses pressure control valves and valves for overrun cut-off, among other things. They are designed to ensure that only the amount of fuel specified by the control unit is injected. The pressure control valve is particularly important because if it is defective, not enough fuel pressure can be built up for the injection and the engine inevitably stops. Pressure control valve from febi bilstein for a BWM Structure and function of a pressure control valve Although pressure control valves can also be attached directly to the high-pressure pump, due to the spread of common rail systems, installation on the rail is much more common. The valve seals the high-pressure side from the low-pressure side. A valve spring closes the fuel return line so that a pressure of approx. 100 bar can build up. However, this pressure is not yet sufficient for the fine atomization of the fuel and is therefore amplified by magnets. The control unit sends a signal, which energizes the electromagnet and can build up additional force. The fuel pressure generated by the high-pressure pump now increases to around 400 bar when idling and to 2,000 to 2,500 bar when under full load. To ensure that no pressure fluctuations occur in the distributor pipe due to the additional magnetic force, the modulation takes place at a frequency of 1 kHz, or 1,000 times per second. Due to the inertia of the fuel, the pressure in the rail remains almost constant. The control unit receives the necessary data on the rail pressure from the rail pressure sensor. Valve for the overrun cut-off The overrun cut-off is intended to prevent fuel from being injected if the engine is running at high speed despite the throttle valve being closed. This driving condition is called overrun mode and it can occur, for example, when driving downhill. As the air supply is throttled, injected fuel would significantly enrich the mixture, which would result in increased consumption and poor exhaust emissions. The valve for the overrun cut-off prevents this and is activated by the control unit. This evaluates the engine speed and the throttle valve position and continues injection as soon as a specified minimum speed is exceeded or the throttle valve is opened again."
Fuel preparation	Carburettor system			"With the triumph of modern injection systems since the 1990s, carburettors have become less important. However, they can still be found in vintage cars and scooters. Their job is to atomize fuel to create a combustible fuel-air mixture, which is then fed into the combustion chamber of the cylinder. Unlike with injection systems, the amount of fuel is not regulated by a control unit, but is determined by the negative pressure of the air flowing past the fuel outlet pipe. 3D model of a carburettor Image: Siemens PLM Software @flickr.com (CC BY-ND 2.0) Structure and function of a carburettor In its simplest version (single carburettor), the carburettor consists of a single tube (the Venturi tube) that has a cross-sectional constriction and is built into the intake tract. The air sucked in by the piston stroke flows to the constriction and is accelerated there so that it can pass through. A negative pressure is created. This suction effect can now be used to mix the fuel with the air and form an aerosol. The exit point of the fuel line is at the narrowest point, so that fuel droplets are carried along. To support this process, the fuel is usually foamed in the feed pipe to the carburetor, i.e. mixed with air via a nozzle. The speed and power output of the engine are controlled via a downstream throttle valve, which in old cars is often adjusted mechanically by a throttle cable or throttle linkage. Types of carburetors Carburettors have long determined the mixture formation in automobiles and their designs are accordingly diverse. Flat-flow, oblique-flow and downdraft carburetors differ, for example, in the arrangement of the intake manifold and the direction of the intake flow. The most common type of downdraft carburettor is a downdraft carburettor, which is mounted above the engine and uses gravity. They can also be differentiated by the number of mixing chambers. Single-flow carburetors have just one air funnel, double-flow carburetors have two. Since the ideal mixture composition depends on many factors, but the cross-section of the constriction is fixed, register or staged carburettors were developed. They have two air funnels of different thicknesses in order to provide an appropriate mixture ratio at least for idling and partial load compared to full load operation. They should not be confused with double carburettors. Constant pressure carburettors and slide carburettors were also attempts to optimize the fuel-air mixture."
Fuel preparation	Carburettor system	Actuation/Damper/Cans		"For the carburetor to work, an air flow in the Venturi tube is necessary. The negative pressure generated entrains fuel particles, which exit from the fuel supply line. The air flow is regulated by the position of the throttle valve and driven by the movement of the pistons in the cylinder. In order to be able to change the throttle valve position, it must be connected to the accelerator pedal. This is done either by a throttle cable or a throttle linkage. In modern injection systems, the control unit can determine the throttle valve position and the angle of the accelerator pedal. Vacuum unit or pull-down unit for VW Golf II Function of the vacuum unit The vacuum unit of a carburetor is also known as a pull-down unit and is part of an automatic cold start system. The engine oil is more viscous, the lubrication is suboptimal and the energy required to run the engine is higher. In addition, some of the fuel condenses on the pipes and does not initially reach the combustion chamber. For this reason, the fuel-air mixture is enriched when the engine is cold. This is done by closing the starter flap with the throttle slightly open. This increases the negative pressure in the Venturi tube and more fuel is carried along by the air flow. As the temperature rises, this is no longer necessary, so the amount of fuel has to be reduced again. In a vacuum unit, a vacuum-controlled diaphragm rod takes over this task by regulating the opening angle of the air flap."
Fuel preparation	Carburettor system	flange		"A flange is a connection between two pipes or machine parts that can usually be removed without causing any damage. This is what distinguishes a flange from a welded connection. The flange can be designed in different ways, but usually also fulfills a sealing function and must therefore meet the respective operating requirements. A carburettor flange such as that used in the VW Golf 2 or VW Golf 3, for example, must not allow any secondary air to enter so that the mixture formation is not disturbed. It ultimately connects the carburettor to the intake pipe. Flange for the carburettor from febi bilstein Defective carburettor flange The flange for the carburettor is often made of rubber and metal. Over time, however, the rubber becomes porous and can eventually tear. The negative pressure in the intake tract now draws in more air, which can lead to the fuel-air mixture becoming so lean that the engine runs unevenly and begins to jerk. Depending on how much secondary air is taken in, the threshold for ignition capability can ultimately be undercut, so that the engine simply stops. Narrowing down the problem can be difficult in some circumstances, as defective vacuum hoses or ignition problems also show similar symptoms. Whether the flange for the carburetor is torn can usually only be seen after disassembly."
Fuel preparation	Carburettor system	Carburettor parts		"The most important part of a carburettor is the venturi tube, which accelerates the air flow through its narrow cross-section and creates a vacuum. The suction effect draws fuel particles along. The amount of fuel-air mixture created is regulated by the throttle position and determines the speed of the engine. However, this simplest carburettor structure is often supplemented by other elements. Jet needle for a carburettor Jet needle and needle nozzle In order to better regulate the amount of fuel escaping into the venturi tube, the fuel outlet is opened up by a jet needle. The tapered jet needle limits the outlet opening of the needle nozzle depending on how far it is inserted into the nozzle. This device means that the proportion of fuel in the mixture is not only determined by the vacuum and can be better adapted to the operating state. Float needle valve Another device is the float housing, which ensures that enough fuel can always flow in via the needle nozzle. If the fuel level in the float chamber drops, the float and the connected float needle move downwards. The corresponding float needle valve opens and fuel can flow in."
Fuel delivery system	Fuel delivery system			"All combustion engines have a fuel delivery system, also known as a fuel supply system. Its job is to pump the fuel out of the tank with sufficient pressure so that it can be burned in the engine after the mixture has been prepared. The system must not only be able to deliver the fuel without bubbles and under constant pressure, but must also prevent fuel or fuel vapors from escaping into the environment in all operating conditions. At the same time, the fuel is usually a flammable liquid that is easily inflammable and requires appropriate safety precautions. Fuel pump for a VW Golf 3 Structure of a fuel delivery system The fuel, usually petrol or diesel, is filled into the fuel tank via the refueling pipe. In cars, this is usually made of plastic and is adapted to the available space as a molded tank. The fuel is stored in it and is pumped to the injection valves via a fuel pump. A pressure regulator ensures that the fuel pressure at the injection valves remains constant. To ensure that there is enough fuel available at all times, the fuel pump always delivers more fuel than is necessary for combustion. Depending on the model and nominal voltage, the delivery rate can be between 60 and 200 liters per hour. The excess fuel is returned to the fuel tank. Fuel filters from Hengst Filter Safety systems in the fuel supply system The fuel supply system has a variety of systems that ensure that no fuel can escape. The fuel tank is vented to ensure pressure equalization when the fuel expands due to heat. The tank is ventilated in the same way when it contracts due to the fuel being delivered. The operating expansion tank required for this holds 2-5 liters, depending on the fuel tank. Gases that are produced are passed on to the activated carbon canister, where they accumulate until the regeneration valve is opened. They are then sucked in by the negative pressure in the intake manifold and fed into the combustion process. Even in the event of an accident, no fuel may escape, so the fuel tank must offer particularly high levels of protection against bursting and also withstand crashes at high speeds. To ensure that no fuel escapes from the activated carbon container in the event of a rollover, the supply line is secured by a gravity valve. Electronic fuses are also installed. The engine control regularly checks the tightness of the system based on the pressure curve. Evaporation losses through the fuel tank must not exceed 2 grams per day with OBD II, for example. Finally, the engine control can adjust the fuel delivery ifif corresponding signals indicate an accident."
Fuel delivery system	Pressure regulator/switch			"The fuel pressure regulator is responsible for regulating the fuel pressure to the desired value. In older pressure regulators with an intake manifold connection, this is determined by the difference between the system pressure and the intake manifold vacuum. In systems without a return line, the fuel pressure regulator is part of the delivery unit, so that the excess fuel flows directly back into the fuel tank. The consistent fuel pressure is necessary to achieve the correct mixture ratio between fuel and air. This enables economical driving. The fuel pressure regulator also protects the fuel lines from excessive pressure, which could lead to leaks. Fuel pressure regulators are also called petrol pressure regulators. Structure and function of the fuel pressure regulator The fuel pressure regulator in a two-line system is usually connected to the distributor pipe of the injection valves. A membrane divides the pressure regulator into two chambers - the fuel chamber and the spring chamber. The control spring is located in the spring chamber, which presses the membrane with a valve plate in the initial position against the fuel return line. The path to the fuel tank remains closed until the fuel system pressure is above the spring pressure. However, the membrane is subjected to negative pressure in the intake manifold in the opposite direction, resulting in a differential pressure (system pressure - intake manifold negative pressure). This must remain constant in all load ranges of the car. The principle works in a similar way in return-flow-free systems (RLFS), but the intake manifold is omitted."
Fuel delivery system	Conveyor unit complete			"The fuel delivery unit, also called the fuel delivery module, is a structural unit made up of various components of the fuel supply system. It is inserted as a whole into the fuel tank and usually consists of a round housing, the catch tank, in which the fuel pump is located. The fuel is transported from the fuel tank into the catch tank via a suction jet pump and then pressed into the fuel line by the positive displacement pump. Fuel pre-filters and fine fuel filters are often used as part of the fuel delivery unit. The pressure regulator in systems without a return line is also installed in the module. Fuel delivery unit from Bosch Fuel delivery module from Bosch Advantages and disadvantages of the fuel delivery unit Since the fuel delivery system is a closed system, the fuel pump can theoretically be installed anywhere. In practice, however, in-tank pumps have prevailed because they are less exposed to corrosion inside the fuel tank. The fuel and the tank itself also dampen the noise generated by the pump, which increases driving comfort. The disadvantage of the modular design is that it is more expensive to replace. The entire feed unit usually has to be replaced if defects occur. Replacing the fuel feed unit In principle, the fuel feed unit can also be replaced by a hobby mechanic, as the actual replacement is relatively simple. However, you often need a special wrench. You can usually get to the fuel tank via the trunk or the folded-down back seat and can remove the old module including the fuel pump. First open the tank cap and then just loosen the lines. When inserting the new feed module, you should make sure that it is leak-proof. It is best to work outdoors and wear respiratory protection so that you do not inhale fuel vapors and avoid spilling residual gasoline from the lines. Since the procedure itself does not take long, you can also have the new fuel feed module installed by a workshop."
Fuel delivery system	Fuel tanks/accessories			"The fuel tank is also known as a tank and is essential for cars with combustion engines to carry the fuel. They are made of either plastic, which is particularly popular in passenger cars, or sheet steel, which is mostly used in commercial vehicles. Both materials have advantages and disadvantages. Plastics such as PE are very easy to shape during production and also allow complicated fuel tanks to be made that can be adapted to the space available in the vehicle. They also offer a high level of protection against bursting and can withstand accidents at speeds of up to 80 kilometers per hour. However, sealing is more complex in order to prevent fuel gases from evaporating. Sheet steel, in turn, must be protected against corrosion. Lockable tank cap from Hella Requirements for the fuel tank The tank must offer as much volume as possible and should always allow the fuel to be drawn in, even when cornering and on steep terrain. Its shape is determined by the conditions of the car, but at the same time it must be ensured that all branched spaces can also be emptied. In most cases, fuel tanks therefore have no more than two lowest points. The fuel is pumped into an internal catch tank, which is part of the fuel delivery module, via a suction jet pump. From there, it is pumped through the fuel lines to the engine using pressure using a positive displacement pump. The fuel tank must also be leak-proof enough to meet strict environmental requirements. In particular, evaporation losses through the material must not exceed the relevant limit values ??(2 grams of hydrocarbons per day). Tanks also have operating expansion tanks and refueling expansion tanks to compensate for pressure differences that arise due to heating or the pumping process."
Fuel delivery system	Fuel filter/housing			"The fuel filter is responsible for removing dirt particles from the fuel. Although fuel quality is very good, especially in Western Europe, the injection systems of modern cars work at such high pressures that even the smallest contamination can cause damage to the injection nozzles. In addition to solid particles, fuel filters also sometimes separate water that has entered the system through condensation of air humidity or poor fuel quality. Biodiesel in particular is highly hygroscopic. The separation of water is necessary to maintain the performance and emission values ??of the car. Fuel filter from Hengst Fuel filter from MANN Filter Source of contamination and change intervals Solid particles in the fuel can be pieces of paint, rust or dirt, among other things. They get into the fuel during storage, decanting or when refueling. Even deliberate vandalism, such as putting sugar in the tank, can cause injection nozzles to become clogged or damaged. The fuel filter keeps out foreign matter, but must therefore be changed regularly. The replacement interval is specified by the vehicle manufacturer and is usually between 20,000 and 60,000 kilometers. Of course, exceptionally contaminated fuel can mean that the fuel filter has to be changed more often. How do you know when the fuel filter needs to be changed? A clogged fuel filter can, among other things, be manifested by irregular power output when accelerating. The engine does not get enough fuel and begins to jerk. In serious cases, the fuel supply is completely interrupted and the engine dies. Usually, however, the failure is announced beforehand by a significant loss of power. Of course, the starting process can also be affected by a clogged fuel filter, meaning the car will not start at all. In this case, depending on the design, the filter is either replaced completely with its housing or the filter element is removed and replaced. To ensure that the engine starts better afterwards, the element is manually filled with fuel when it is changed."
Fuel delivery system	Pump/accessories			"At kfzteile24 you can also buy fuel pumps and suitable accessories cheaply online. Seals and relays in particular must be changed more frequently in order to ensure the fuel supply at all times. The fuel pump accessories also include suitable holders and even tappets for the high-pressure pump. As the heart of the fuel delivery system, the fuel pump is the essential component that supplies the engine with fuel. Both the delivery volume and the corresponding delivery pressures must be achieved during operation. Fuel pump from Bosch What errors can occur in the fuel supply If the engine does not start, there can be many reasons for this. In terms of the fuel system, the cause could be a lack of fuel in the tank or a defective fuel pump. Low engine performance can also be directly or indirectly related to the fuel pump. Check the lines for visible damage or kinks. Also have the fuel filter changed and the power supply to the pump checked. If this has been done and the delivery volume and delivery pressure are still not sufficient, the error is probably due to wear and tear on the fuel pump itself. Before you replace it, however, check the vehicle's self-diagnosis. A missing speed signal, an activated immobilizer or a diagnosed accident can cause the fuel pump not to be activated due to the engine control unit."
Fuel delivery system	Pump/accessories	Fuel pump		"The fuel pump or fuel feed pump has the task of pumping the fuel from the fuel tank to the engine, where it is finally burned. It is electrically driven and, depending on the nominal voltage and model, achieves a delivery rate of between 60 l/h and 200 l/h. This is significantly more than a typical car consumes, but is intended to ensure that there is always enough fuel available for mixture formation in all load ranges. However, in order to protect the fuel feed pump, save energy and also not increase the fuel temperature unnecessarily, the fuel pump in modern cars is modulated by the control unit. At partial load and when idling, the delivery rate can be adjusted in this way. The delivery pressure is usually between 3 and 7 bar. Fuel pump from Bosch Fuel feed unit from Bosch Fuel feed unit or fuel feed module In-line pumps and in-tank pumps Because the fuel system is closed so that no fuel can escape into the environment, the position of the pump can be freely selected. In-line pumps can therefore be integrated into the fuel line at any position. They offer the advantage of being particularly easy to replace in the event of a defect. On the other hand, they are usually more exposed to corrosion on the vehicle floor than comparable in-tank pumps. There is also no sound insulation from the tank and fuel. Positive displacement pumps, flow pumps and fuel feed modules Fuel feed pumps can be divided into positive displacement pumps or flow pumps depending on their principle of operation. With a positive displacement pump, the fuel is sucked into a closed space, which shrinks and is thus pressed into the line at high pressure. The disadvantage of these fuel pumps is the relatively loud noise and a significant drop in performance if vapor bubbles form due to heat. As a rule, flow pumps are therefore installed upstream. Although they only reach a maximum pressure of 4 bar, they can remove vapor bubbles from the fuel through a degassing hole. In these pumps, the fuel is accelerated by impellers, which builds up the pressure. Both pumping principles are often used in fuel delivery modules, which are usually installed directly in a two-stage fuel pump. Changing the fuel pump Electric fuel pumps are long-lasting components that rarely need to be changed. However, they can also wear out if the mileage is high. Problems are manifested by too little delivery volume or too little delivery pressure. As a driver, you have to deal with starting problems, loss of power and a jerking engine. In the case of mechanical defects, an atypical pump noise can sometimes be heard. First check that the pump is responsible and not a line defect or an electronic error. If the fuel pump needs to be replaced,This work can usually be done by a hobby mechanic. However, the workshop costs are usually limited once the fault has been clearly identified."
Fuel delivery system	Pump/accessories	Accessories/Parts		"The fuel pump is the most important element of the fuel delivery system, but a number of individual parts are necessary for it to function properly. At kfzteile24 you will find numerous accessories such as relays, holders or pressure accumulators. We also offer tappets for the high-pressure pump and of course seals. If you are looking for a series resistor for the fuel pump or a flange for the fuel delivery unit, you will also find what you are looking for here. Relay for the fuel pump Is the fuel pump relay defective? If the fuel pump does not start, the combustion engine cannot work, of course. But there are many possible causes. Before you replace the pump, you should first check whether there is any voltage at all. You should be able to measure 12 volts on the pump relay. If this is not the case, the relay, the cable or the fuse could be damaged. Finally, the battery itself could also be defective. The pump relay can be bridged with a short test cable. If the fuel pump starts, this is a good indication that the pump relay is defective and needs to be replaced. If you are unsure, leave the troubleshooting to a specialist workshop."
Fuel delivery system	Hoses/pipes			"Since the fuel tank is usually located at the rear of the vehicle, the fuel must be pumped to the engine through fuel hoses or lines. Such a fuel hose must be able to withstand the pressure of 3 to 7 bar generated by the fuel pump and at the same time be flexible enough to be easily laid. The fuel line should also be leak-proof and as robust as possible to withstand corrosion. The list of requirements is not yet complete, however, as the fuel line must ultimately serve its purpose at any temperature. The fuel must reach its destination without loss, both in cold and hot fuel. Fuel hose from febi bilstein Fuel line from febi bilstein Structure of a fuel hose The fuel hose of cars differs in many respects. Pay particular attention to the inner diameter and suitability for the fuel you are using. For example, the alcohol contained in E10 fuel can attack plastics and cause the system to leak over time. Biodiesel and some fuel hoses also only work together to a limited extent. The reason lies in the different materials. For example, fuel hoses are sometimes made of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or rubber. Fabric inserts or textile braids are often vulcanized in, sometimes even steel spirals are incorporated to withstand the pressure in the fuel delivery system. The application temperatures can also vary. The hoses can generally be used without any problems down to frosty -30  Celsius, and even heated fuel does not harm a good line. A fuel line does its job up to 80  Celsius, sometimes even up to 110  Celsius. Replacing a defective fuel line Broken fuel lines become more and more likely as the vehicle gets older. The material becomes porous and eventually tears. Animals can also damage the fuel line. Depending on the extent, the defect can be easily identified. High consumption and a noticeable smell of fuel are clear signs that the line is not tight. The damaged line is simply replaced and the new hose is laid and attached in the same way. This work can also be done without a workshop, but the replacement is correspondingly inexpensive."
Fuel delivery system	Tank sender			"According to surveys by the ADAC, too little fuel in the tank is one of the most common causes of breakdowns. To avoid this mishap, fuel tank senders are used. These were initially simple mechanical floats that moved an indicator needle via Bowden cables. Later, dip tube senders or float tubes were used. The fuel level moves the shimmer, which changes the electrical resistance via a sliding contact. This change can be measured and is shown on a display instrument in the dashboard, usually analogue. In modern vehicles, however, the fuel tank senders are part of the fuel delivery unit. Fuel tank senders on a fuel delivery unit Accuracy of the fuel tank senders In modern cars, the fuel gauge is very accurate and reliable, i.e. as a driver on a flat road, you can usually rely on the values. This is relevant because filling up the tank is less efficient than driving with a half-full tank for energy reasons. If you are not planning a long journey, you should therefore not fill the fuel tank completely. On average, you save 25 to 40 kilograms this way, which reduces consumption accordingly."
Fuel delivery system	Valves			"The fuel system is characterized by numerous valves that have a common task: to prevent fuel or fuel vapors from escaping into the environment. Among other things, a vent valve for the fuel tank is necessary because fuel expands when heated. The increasing pressure could damage hose connections or even the fuel tank. The vent valve prevents this. The fuel can flow into the expansion tank, which has a volume of 2 to 5 liters, depending on the size of the tank. Vent valve for fuel tank Vent valve from Bosch Ventilation of the fuel tank When the fuel is removed by the fuel pump, a ventilation valve ensures that no negative pressure can build up. The fuel tank, which is often made of plastic in cars, could otherwise become deformed or even tear. The ventilation and vent valves also allow the car to be refueled without problems. Other valves in the fuel system In addition to ventilation valves and vent valves, shut-off valves, check valves, regeneration valves and float gravity valves are used to regulate the path of the fuel vapors. They are directed into the activated carbon filter and stick there. When the regeneration valve opens, the stored hydrocarbons are attracted by the negative pressure in the intake manifold and finally burned in the cylinders. The complex valve technology saves fuel and protects the environment."
cooling	cooling			"Cooling plays a crucial role in cars, because combustion engines not only generate the desired kinetic energy but also a high level of heat, which can only be used to a limited extent. The intense heat development can cause damage and even lead to the destruction of the engine. Adequate cooling prevents this. Air cooling With air cooling, the heat generated in the cylinders is transferred to the crankcase and the lubricating oil and then absorbed by the air flowing around it. The process is usually supported by metal fins around the cylinder and cylinder head. Air cooling was used in historic cars such as the VW Beetle, the Citroen 2CV (""Duck"") or many Trabant models. The advantages over the now common water cooling are the simple and inexpensive design and the reliable, maintenance-free operation. After all, only a few components are involved and there is no coolant that could freeze. However, the disadvantages are now more serious. The cooling air and turbulence on the engine lead to a lot of noise and the flow behavior of the air is usually not ideal, so that the engine performance is limited. A possible cooling fan also makes the engine inefficient, as up to 8% of the power is skimmed off. In addition, the passenger compartment is difficult to heat because there is no carrier medium for the engine heat. In winter, this dramatically reduces driving comfort. Engine fan from febi bilstein Cooling water pump for a VW Golf 3 Liquid cooling Liquid cooling is usually operated with a mixture of water and an antifreeze and corrosion inhibitor as the coolant. In common parlance, the term water cooling has therefore become common. Its main advantage is the transport of a large amount of heat and the even cooling of all engine parts. This means that the engine's performance can be significantly increased without having to worry about heat damage. The coolant also has a noise-insulating effect and can be used to heat the passenger compartment when the outside temperature is cold. The increased driving comfort increases safety. Water cooling is also very efficient, as the water pump requires significantly less power than a possible cooling fan. Liquid cooling has now become widespread, even though it also has some disadvantages. These include higher costs due to the more complex design of the crankcase and the numerous components required. Hoses, flanges, the coolant pump, the radiator and the coolant itself can fail (e.g. freeze or leak). They are also subject to wear and tear and must be checked or replaced regularly. More components also mean more weight.Nevertheless, liquid cooling represents the current state of cooling technology in cars. Structure of a liquid cooling system Liquid cooling forms a closed system - the coolant circuit - which is driven by a coolant pump. You can buy the individual components cheaply online at kfzteile24. Coolant pump The coolant pump is usually driven by the timing belt, sometimes also by the V-ribbed belt. Modern cars also use electric coolant pumps that work independently of speed and as needed. They increase efficiency and can continue to supply the heater with warm water when the engine is turned off. Radiator The radiator is the linchpin of a liquid cooling system and is usually installed between the headlights at the front of the car. Condensers for air conditioning systems and intercoolers are usually located in front of it. The coolant flows through the radiator, which releases the heat to the ambient air via the radiator network. A large surface area is necessary for this. Radiator fan In front of or behind the radiator there is a fan or ventilator, which ensures that enough cooling air flows around the radiator by sucking in, especially in traffic jams and at slow speeds. It is either driven by a belt via the crankshaft, which means more power consumption at high speeds, or electrically. The fan usually switches on automatically as soon as a thermal switch gives the signal. Expansion tank The coolant circuit is usually operated with a little excess pressure to allow coolant temperatures of just over 100 C. However, the heating causes the coolant to expand and an expansion tank must compensate for the effect so that there is always enough coolant available. Thermostat Water cooling is so effective that the optimum operating temperature is reached much later when the engine is started, which has a negative effect on performance and exhaust emissions. A thermostat therefore measures the temperature of the coolant and decouples the radiator. The coolant only flows around the engine and circulates via the water pump and the heater core. As soon as the coolant is warm enough, the thermostat clears the way to the radiator. Antifreeze & hoses The coolant is available either as a ready-mix or as a concentrate that must be diluted with water in a specified ratio. When choosing a coolant, make sure that the antifreeze is suitable for your vehicle. Products containing silicate and those without silicate must not be mixed. If you only use water, you risk pipes and hoses bursting and, in the worst case, cracks in the engine.Structure of a liquid cooling system Liquid cooling forms a closed system - the coolant circuit - which is driven by a coolant pump. You can buy the individual components cheaply online at kfzteile24. Coolant pump The coolant pump is usually driven by the timing belt, sometimes also by the V-ribbed belt. Modern cars also use electric coolant pumps that work independently of the speed and as needed. They increase efficiency and can continue to supply the heater with warm water when the engine is turned off. Radiator The radiator is the linchpin of a liquid cooling system and is usually installed between the headlights at the front of the car. Air conditioning condensers and intercoolers are usually located in front of it. The coolant flows through the radiator, which releases the heat to the ambient air via the radiator network. A large surface area is necessary for this. Radiator fan In front of or behind the radiator there is a fan or ventilator, which ensures that enough cooling air flows around the radiator by sucking in, particularly in traffic jams and at slow speeds. It is either driven by a belt via the crankshaft, which means more power consumption at high speeds, or electrically. The fan usually switches on automatically as soon as a thermal switch gives the signal. Expansion tank The coolant circuit is usually operated with a little excess pressure to allow coolant temperatures of just over 100 C. However, the heating causes the coolant to expand and an expansion tank must compensate for the effect so that there is always enough coolant available. Thermostat Water cooling is so effective that the optimum operating temperature is reached much later when the engine is started, which has a negative effect on performance and exhaust emissions. A thermostat therefore measures the temperature of the coolant and decouples the radiator. The coolant only flows around the engine and circulates via the water pump and the heater core. As soon as the coolant is warm enough, the thermostat clears the way to the radiator. Antifreeze & hoses The coolant is available either as a ready-mix or as a concentrate that must be diluted with water in a specified ratio. When choosing a coolant, make sure that the antifreeze is suitable for your vehicle. Products containing silicate and those without silicate must not be mixed. If you only use water, you risk pipes and hoses bursting and, in the worst case, cracks in the engine.Structure of a liquid cooling system Liquid cooling forms a closed system - the coolant circuit - which is driven by a coolant pump. You can buy the individual components cheaply online at kfzteile24. Coolant pump The coolant pump is usually driven by the timing belt, sometimes also by the V-ribbed belt. Modern cars also use electric coolant pumps that work independently of the speed and as needed. They increase efficiency and can continue to supply the heater with warm water when the engine is turned off. Radiator The radiator is the linchpin of a liquid cooling system and is usually installed between the headlights at the front of the car. Air conditioning condensers and intercoolers are usually located in front of it. The coolant flows through the radiator, which releases the heat to the ambient air via the radiator network. A large surface area is necessary for this. Radiator fan In front of or behind the radiator there is a fan or ventilator, which ensures that enough cooling air flows around the radiator by sucking in, particularly in traffic jams and at slow speeds. It is either driven by a belt via the crankshaft, which means more power consumption at high speeds, or electrically. The fan usually switches on automatically as soon as a thermal switch gives the signal. Expansion tank The coolant circuit is usually operated with a little excess pressure to allow coolant temperatures of just over 100 C. However, the heating causes the coolant to expand and an expansion tank must compensate for the effect so that there is always enough coolant available. Thermostat Water cooling is so effective that the optimum operating temperature is reached much later when the engine is started, which has a negative effect on performance and exhaust emissions. A thermostat therefore measures the temperature of the coolant and decouples the radiator. The coolant only flows around the engine and circulates via the water pump and the heater core. As soon as the coolant is warm enough, the thermostat clears the way to the radiator. Antifreeze & hoses The coolant is available either as a ready-mix or as a concentrate that must be diluted with water in a specified ratio. When choosing a coolant, make sure that the antifreeze is suitable for your vehicle. Products containing silicate and those without silicate must not be mixed. If you only use water, you risk pipes and hoses bursting and, in the worst case, cracks in the engine.which work independently of speed and according to demand. They increase efficiency and can continue to supply the heater with warm water when the engine is switched off. Radiator The radiator is the linchpin of a liquid cooling system and is usually installed between the headlights at the front of the car. Condensers for air conditioning systems and intercoolers are usually located in front of it. The coolant flows through the radiator, which releases the heat into the ambient air via the radiator network. A large surface area is necessary for this. Radiator fan In front of or behind the radiator there is a fan or ventilator which, particularly in traffic jams and at low speeds, ensures that enough cooling air flows around the radiator by sucking in. It is either driven by a belt via the crankshaft, which does mean more power consumption at high speeds, or electrically. The fan usually switches on automatically as soon as a thermal switch gives the signal. Expansion tank The coolant circuit is usually operated with a little excess pressure to allow coolant temperatures of just over 100 C. However, when it heats up, the coolant expands and an expansion tank must compensate for the effect so that there is always enough coolant available. Thermostat Water cooling is so effective that the optimum operating temperature is reached much later when the engine is started, which has a negative effect on performance and exhaust emissions. A thermostat therefore measures the temperature of the coolant and decouples the radiator. The coolant only flows around the engine and circulates via the water pump and the heating heat exchanger. As soon as the coolant is warm enough, the thermostat clears the way to the radiator. Antifreeze & hoses The coolant is available either as a ready-mix or as a concentrate that must be diluted with water in a specified ratio. When choosing the coolant, make sure that the antifreeze is suitable for your vehicle. Products that contain silicate and those that do not contain silicate must not be mixed. If you only use water, you risk pipes and hoses bursting and, in the worst case, cracks in the engine.which work independently of speed and according to demand. They increase efficiency and can continue to supply the heater with warm water when the engine is switched off. Radiator The radiator is the linchpin of a liquid cooling system and is usually installed between the headlights at the front of the car. Condensers for air conditioning systems and intercoolers are usually located in front of it. The coolant flows through the radiator, which releases the heat into the ambient air via the radiator network. A large surface area is necessary for this. Radiator fan In front of or behind the radiator there is a fan or ventilator which, particularly in traffic jams and at low speeds, ensures that enough cooling air flows around the radiator by sucking in. It is either driven by a belt via the crankshaft, which does mean more power consumption at high speeds, or electrically. The fan usually switches on automatically as soon as a thermal switch gives the signal. Expansion tank The coolant circuit is usually operated with a little excess pressure to allow coolant temperatures of just over 100 C. However, when it heats up, the coolant expands and an expansion tank must compensate for the effect so that there is always enough coolant available. Thermostat Water cooling is so effective that the optimum operating temperature is reached much later when the engine is started, which has a negative effect on performance and exhaust emissions. A thermostat therefore measures the temperature of the coolant and decouples the radiator. The coolant only flows around the engine and circulates via the water pump and the heating heat exchanger. As soon as the coolant is warm enough, the thermostat clears the way to the radiator. Antifreeze & hoses The coolant is available either as a ready-mix or as a concentrate that must be diluted with water in a specified ratio. When choosing the coolant, make sure that the antifreeze is suitable for your vehicle. Products that contain silicate and those that do not contain silicate must not be mixed. If you only use water, you risk pipes and hoses bursting and, in the worst case, cracks in the engine.that enough cooling air flows around the radiator. It is either driven by a belt via the crankshaft, which however means more power consumption at high speeds, or electrically. The fan usually switches on automatically as soon as a thermal switch gives the signal. Expansion tank The coolant circuit is usually operated with a little excess pressure to allow coolant temperatures of just over 100 C. However, when it heats up, the coolant expands and an expansion tank must compensate for the effect so that there is always enough coolant available. Thermostat Water cooling is so effective that the optimum operating temperature is reached much later when the engine is started, which has a negative effect on performance and exhaust emissions. A thermostat therefore measures the temperature of the coolant and decouples the radiator. The coolant only flows around the engine and circulates via the water pump and the heater core. As soon as the coolant is warm enough, the thermostat clears the way to the radiator. Antifreeze & hoses The coolant is available either as a ready-mix or as a concentrate that must be diluted with water in a specified ratio. When choosing the coolant, make sure that the antifreeze is suitable for your vehicle. Agents containing silicate and those without silicate must not be mixed. If you only use water, you risk pipes and hoses bursting and, in the worst case, cracks in the engine.that enough cooling air flows around the radiator. It is either driven by a belt via the crankshaft, which however means more power consumption at high speeds, or electrically. The fan usually switches on automatically as soon as a thermal switch gives the signal. Expansion tank The coolant circuit is usually operated with a little excess pressure to allow coolant temperatures of just over 100 C. However, when it heats up, the coolant expands and an expansion tank must compensate for the effect so that there is always enough coolant available. Thermostat Water cooling is so effective that the optimum operating temperature is reached much later when the engine is started, which has a negative effect on performance and exhaust emissions. A thermostat therefore measures the temperature of the coolant and decouples the radiator. The coolant only flows around the engine and circulates via the water pump and the heater core. As soon as the coolant is warm enough, the thermostat clears the way to the radiator. Antifreeze & hoses The coolant is available either as a ready-mix or as a concentrate that must be diluted with water in a specified ratio. When choosing the coolant, make sure that the antifreeze is suitable for your vehicle. Agents containing silicate and those without silicate must not be mixed. If you only use water, you risk pipes and hoses bursting and, in the worst case, cracks in the engine.risks bursting of pipes and hoses and, in the worst case, cracks in the engine.risks bursting of pipes and hoses and, in the worst case, cracks in the engine."
cooling	Radiator antifreeze			"With over a million car and car spare parts for all common car brands, kfzteile24 is one of the largest mail order companies for cars in Germany. You can also find cheap antifreeze for your car in our online shop. But which radiator antifreeze is the right one? Each coolant has different additives and is optimized for the materials used by the respective car manufacturer. A basic distinction is made between radiator antifreeze containing silicate and antifreeze without silicate. G12++ concentrate from BASF G11 ready mix containing silicate Can you mix antifreeze of different colors? There is a myth that you can use the color of radiator antifreeze to decide whether the antifreeze is suitable for your car. However, there is no regulation that red coolant must be free of silicate and that green or blue always contains silicate. With antifreeze containing silicate, inorganic and organic substances protect the radiator from corrosion. They are used by Mercedes and BMW, for example, and are called G11. You need silicate-free antifreeze if you have an aluminum radiator or engine. Organic salts provide corrosion protection. Manufacturers that use this technology include Opel and Ford. Many Japanese vehicles also need silicate-free antifreeze. Antifreeze without silicates is known as G12+. Antifreeze with the designation G12++ and G13 combine the properties of antifreeze containing silicate and antifreeze containing silicate and offer excellent corrosion protection and a long service life. These products are often found in cars from the VW Group. Mixing and refilling antifreeze Mixing antifreeze is generally possible, but it is important to ensure that silicate-free and silicate-containing coolants are not mixed, as this could lead to unwanted chemical reactions, which could impair corrosion protection and impair the lubrication of the cooling water pump. This can quickly lead to damage that is expensive. However, always pay attention to the manufacturer's instructions and the operating manual for your car. There you will find the specifications that the manufacturer specifies for the coolant. Distilled water for mixing antifreeze concentrate Check the radiator antifreeze regularly The antifreeze offered in the kfzteile24 shop is available as a concentrate or ready-mixed product in different sizes and is simply added (diluted) to the associated cooling tank. The radiator antifreeze should be checked regularly to ensure constant cooling. The mixtures are made on the basis of monoethylene glycol, for example, which has special properties such as a lower freezing point. This means that the car can be started even in sub-zero temperatures in winter.Radiator antifreeze is an elementary component of comprehensive vehicle care and is indispensable if unrestricted engine performance is to be ensured over a long period of time."
cooling	Fan			"The fan or radiator fan is part of the engine cooling system and is also called a radiator fan. It is located either in front of or behind the radiator. Radiator fans were often connected to the crankshaft via a belt drive, but nowadays they are components that are independent of the engine speed. They are often driven by electric motors or only switch on when required. This happens, for example, when heat builds up in a traffic jam or stop-and-go mode because the radiator is not getting any airflow. If a predetermined temperature is exceeded, a thermal switch switches the fan on. This usually happens at 90 degrees Celsius. The air flow generated transports the heat away from the radiator and releases it into the ambient air. Radiator fan for a Peugeot 206 Fan wheel for a BMW 3 Compact Optimum engine temperature thanks to fan The power required for the necessary cooling depends on the vehicle type and the ambient temperature. In modern engines, there is basically little space to dissipate heat. Sophisticated thermal management controls all systems responsible for cooling the engine compartment, including the fan. A defective fan can cause damage and engine failure, especially in the warm summer months. However, sensors usually report in advance that the coolant is getting too hot."
cooling	Air cooling			"In the kfzteile24 online shop you can buy all the necessary spare parts for cooling your car quickly and cheaply online. We also offer the right fans for the radiator under the general term air cooling. Like all parts, air cooling components are usually dispatched within 24 hours. This is possible due to our large warehouse with over a million car parts and car accessories. We have high quality standards and work with brand manufacturers such as Hella and febi bilstein in the area of ??air cooling. kfzteile24 is fast, cheap and reliable. If you have any questions or comments, please contact our support team, whose trained staff can also give you specific advice before you place your order. Fans from febi bilstein Fans for engine cooling Air cooling as part of engine cooling Since a combustion engine converts a large part of the energy bound in the fuel into heat and not into movement due to the way it works, this thermal energy must be dissipated in order to prevent the unit from overheating and thus causing damage. On the other hand, a certain operating temperature must be reached for the engine to run properly. Air coolers also play an important role in this temperature management. They are installed in front of or behind the radiator and switched on when required. Weather and traffic in particular are important influencing factors. If the car is stuck in a traffic jam in summer, for example, the radiator may not be able to cool the coolant sufficiently despite its large surface area and the heat builds up under the hood. An air cooling system can help and replace the missing airflow if necessary. This usually happens at temperatures of around 90 degrees Celsius. Buy a new fan or ventilator Like all car parts, the fan is subject to wear and tear and should be checked regularly. Are all spokes present? Are there any other mechanical impairments and can the fan rotate freely? If this is not the case, you should buy a new air cooling system."
cooling	relay			"As an expert in the trade of high-quality spare parts and car accessories, kfzteile24 also stocks inexpensive relays for the radiator fan, which you can buy conveniently and safely online. Brand manufacturers such as Hella and febi bilstein stand for quality. Thanks to large stocks, the parts are usually dispatched 24 hours after ordering. Private customers, car workshops and breakdown services are happy about this. We also offer a full 365-day right of return so that you can shop risk-free, conveniently and safely. Try us out! Radiator fan follow-up relay for an Opel Zafira The purpose of a relay Relays are electronic components that take on a switching function and are also used in radiator fans. This is then referred to as a radiator fan follow-up. The relay or the radiator fan follow-up controls the radiator fan when the temperature of the coolant exceeds a predetermined value. The activated fan then generates a cooling air flow, so that the radiator is supported in its function. The radiator and radiator fan work together to protect the engine from overheating. You should make sure that the cooling fan is working, especially in traffic jams, during stop-and-go driving and on hot days.
"
cooling	Switch/Sensor			"In the area of ??coolant sensors and temperature switches, kfzteile24 has a large number of different models for all common cars in its online shop. We offer brand quality from well-known manufacturers such as Hella, febi bilstein and Blue Print, but also affordable alternatives. We have most parts in stock and can therefore ship ordered goods within 24 hours of purchase in 90% of cases. At kfzteile24 you can buy safely, conveniently and without risk, because we offer a full 365-day right of return. If you have any questions, our support team will be happy to help you. a coolant sensor from Blue Print High-quality and reliable sensor technology is indispensable The coolant circuit of a modern car includes not only the radiator, the thermostat and the water pump, but also a large number of switches and sensors that work together to ensure the engine has an optimal operating temperature, depending on the vehicle. For example, sensors measure the coolant level or the coolant temperature so that the driver can react accordingly and either top up the coolant or have the entire circuit checked for leaks. Temperature switches or thermal switches also activate the radiator fan when the car is stuck in a traffic jam, for example, and the radiator is not getting enough airflow. This usually happens at 90 degrees Celsius. The oil temperature is also an interesting indicator that provides information about the condition of the engine and helps to prevent damage. Changing the coolant sensors yourself Cars are highly complex machines and reliable sensors are essential for identifying potential problems in good time. The coolant sensors are usually inexpensive and can be easily installed by laypeople. Also check all plug connections and cables at regular intervals."
cooling	Hoses/Pipes/Flanges			"The coolant circuit of a modern liquid-cooled car consists of a radiator, radiator fan, water pump and of course the coolant. But to create a circuit, pipes, coolant hoses, flanges and seals are also required. You can find a wide range of the necessary connecting parts for different cars in our online shop. They should also be checked first if persistent coolant loss is detected. The hoses become brittle over time due to weather and thermal stress. The water evaporates through the cracks and the engine could overheat as a result. Marten bites in rural areas are also not uncommon and require the immediate replacement of a coolant hose. Coolant flange of an Audi Coolant hose from Gates Check coolant regularly Anyone who remembers their driving school days and has learned about the CLOUD scheme (water, oil, air, fuel, electrics) knows how important the coolant is. Check the coolant level regularly, especially before long journeys and at high temperatures, to avoid breaking down halfway through with the engine smoking. If you notice that the coolant level is constantly decreasing, the lines, hoses and especially the seals must be inspected and replaced if necessary. Constantly adding coolant will only delay this simple solution. Changing hoses and seals usually does not require any special knowledge. However, make sure that the connections are tight."
cooling	Hoses/Pipes/Flanges	Flanges		"If the car is constantly losing coolant, the lines and hoses as well as the coolant flanges and their seals should be checked first. Leaks and leaks are usually easy to detect and, thanks to inexpensive parts, can be repaired inexpensively with little effort. A flange is generally understood to be a tight but nevertheless detachable connection between pipe sections. Similarly, a coolant flange is used to connect the individual lines of the coolant circuit to one another. Depending on the vehicle, they can have several openings or branches and be made of metal or plastic. Suitable sealing rings prevent coolant from escaping at the respective line transition. Immediately after changing a coolant flange, you should check the coolant level and top up with water if necessary. Depending on the design of the flange, air may first have to escape from the line system, causing the displayed coolant level to fall below the minimum. A coolant flange creates the connection between two pipes or lines in the cooling system."
cooling	Hoses/Pipes/Flanges	Cooling water hoses/pipes		"The radiator hose is also called the cooling water hose and is an inconspicuous but essential component of a liquid-cooled engine. It is a flexible connection between the cooling water pump, radiator and engine. Due to the thermal load from the cooling water and external influences, it can become brittle and cracked over time and should be checked regularly. An alternative to the radiator hose, especially over longer distances, is a permanently installed coolant pipe. This also allows the coolant to circulate so that the heat generated by the engine can be transported to the radiator and released into the ambient air. Radiator hose from febi bilstein Coolant pipe for a BMW 5 Replacing the radiator hose instead of patching it Replacing a cooling water hose is relatively simple and can usually be done without any problems by a layperson. When installing it, just make sure that all connections are tight so that no coolant can leak out. Patching a radiator hose is at best a makeshift solution and should not be considered in the long term, even with a view to the cheap replacement. Malfunctions in the coolant circuit are particularly dangerous for modern and powerful engines."
cooling	Hoses/Pipes/Flanges	Oil hoses/lines		"Cars are now highly complex machines in which hydraulic, mechanical and electronic components work together. Some processes can only work if oil is transported through a suitable oil hose or oil line. For this reason, kfzteile24 has inexpensive oil hoses and oil lines in stock alongside over 1.5 million other spare parts. The oil serves as a lubricant and heat carrier within an oil cooling system. Due to its high boiling point, the oil can dissipate the heat of the engine particularly well, but the demands on the oil hoses and oil lines are correspondingly high. They must be tolerant of temperature fluctuations, withstand high pressures and must not leak even when in contact with other operating materials. an oil hose from febi bilstein Properties of an oil hose Durability and reliability are therefore a decisive quality feature for oil hoses and oil lines. The limited space in the engine compartment of a modern car requires oil hoses to be flexible at the same time so that they can be laid easily. An oil hose is usually made of PVC or special rubber mixtures such as NBR (nitrile butadiene rubber). Sometimes the lines are equipped with a spiral reinforcement made of hard PVC, which makes them even more robust. However, this always comes at the expense of the flexibility of an oil hose. Replacing a defective oil hose If oil is dirtying the engine compartment of a vehicle, the first thing you should do is check the oil hose and its connection points. If the problem is actually due to a leaking oil hose, you can breathe a sigh of relief, because replacing it is usually easier and cheaper than if the oil were to leak through an engine seal. Of course, you should still act immediately, because leaking oil not only pollutes the environment, but can no longer perform its actual function. In the worst case, it drips onto hot engine parts and thus even poses a safety risk. Check the oil hoses regularly and replace porous lines in good time."
cooling	Thermostat/seal			"A combustion engine can only work efficiently and in an environmentally friendly way once it has reached its operating temperature. Thermostats are installed in the coolant circuit so that the cooling water does not hinder the desired heating when the unit is started. In its initial state, the component blocks the path to the radiator, so that the cooling water only circulates in the small coolant circuit and can heat up more quickly. The coolant temperature is of course constantly monitored, because the engine must not get too hot. As soon as the specified threshold value of approx. 80  Celsius is reached, the large coolant circuit is opened via the thermostat. The cooling water can now flow to the radiator and there, supported by the airstream or the radiator fan, release its thermal energy to the environment. Structure and function of the thermostat In the past, a thermostat in a car consisted mainly of a pressure body filled with waxy expansion material. The warm cooling water heats up the expansion material, which eventually melts and thus increases its volume. This change in volume causes the valve to clear the path to the radiator. Thanks to a return spring, the thermostat is closed again when it cools down. This means that the next time the engine is started, the cooling water can only circulate in the small cooling water circuit. Modern thermostats in cars, on the other hand, are controlled electronically by a control unit, but in principle still have their valve function. Thermostat for cars A defective thermostat can be noticeable through overheating of the engine or errors in the exhaust gas aftertreatment. What symptoms does a defective thermostat show? With a defective thermostat, constant problems with the engine temperature are the order of the day, but the specific symptoms depend on where the thermostat fails. If the thermostat is blocked when closed, overheating and a drop in performance are the direct result. An appropriate engine light or an on-board computer will sound the alarm and indicate that the coolant temperature is too high. In the worst case, the coolant starts to boil, which can be seen from white clouds of smoke coming from the engine compartment. If the thermostat is always open, the engine cannot reach its operating temperature, especially in winter. In addition to the coolant temperature possibly being detected as too low, this also leads to problems with the exhaust gas aftertreatment. The catalytic converter also needs high temperatures so that the chemical conversion of the pollutants can take place. In some cases, the defective thermostat can also lead to error messages from the catalytic converter or the lambda sensor. Changing the thermostat Thermostats are available as insert thermostats and housing thermostats, which are of course sometimes more or sometimes less easy to access depending on the vehicle. However, changing them is usually possible even for the hobby mechanic.First drain the coolant and note that it is hot when the engine is warm. It must be disposed of properly due to the antifreeze it contains. The coolant hoses are then disconnected from the thermostat housing or the coolant flange is unscrewed. The new thermostat is placed in the place of the old thermostat and the coolant circuit is closed and filled again. The seal is also replaced to prevent coolant loss. When installing or inserting the new thermostat, the installation direction may need to be observed. Before replacing electrical thermostats, also check the incoming cables and contacts to ensure that the defect is not caused by an error in the data transmission."
cooling	Thermostat/seal	poetry		"In order to work efficiently and as cleanly as possible, the temperature of an engine must not be too high or too low. For this reason, a thermostat is usually used in the coolant circuit. It prevents the coolant from flowing over the radiator during a cold start and only opens this access once the operating temperature is reached. The engine therefore warms up more quickly, can develop its maximum power and save fuel through greater efficiency. If the temperature of the coolant continues to rise, the thermostat opens access to the radiator and the coolant can constantly cool the engine and release the absorbed heat into the ambient air. Sealing rings for the thermostat look inconspicuous and are usually inexpensive. What is the function of the seal? Liquid operating materials such as coolant always place particularly high demands on the corresponding seals. Leaking coolant can cause the engine to overheat because there is not enough coolant to absorb the thermal energy released in the combustion process. As a result, the car will initially inform the driver via a warning light and eventually stop working. The seal of a thermostat becomes brittle over time and should be replaced as soon as a leak is detected. Replacing it is usually easy and can sometimes be done by a layperson. It is only important to remember that the thermostat seal should be replaced when the engine is cold."
cooling	Thermostat/seal	thermostat		"A car thermostat is sometimes also called a cooling water thermostat to distinguish it from other temperature regulators. Its job is simple but important, because the thermostat ensures that the combustion engine of a car reaches its operating temperature as quickly as possible and is then kept at the optimal temperature level. This is achieved by the thermostat initially interrupting the flow of coolant to the radiator. The water circulating in the small cooling circuit has a harder time dissipating the heat it has absorbed from the engine and heats up. As a result, the engine also warms up more quickly. From around 80  C, the thermostat opens the large cooling circuit so that the coolant can flow to the radiator. The correct operating temperature is a crucial factor with regard to efficient and low-emission combustion and wear and tear on engine parts. a thermostat from Hella Thermostat for a VW Golf III Structure and function of the thermostat The two-way thermostat, i.e. a thermostat with a double valve, opens the path of the large cooling circuit (with radiator) as the temperature rises and gradually closes the path of the small cooling circuit (without radiator). This behavior is achieved by an expansion element. This is a pressure-resistant body that is filled with a waxy expansion material. If the expansion material is heated by the heating of the cooling water, it melts, increases its volume and pushes up a recessed working piston. A valve plate is attached to the working piston of the thermostat, which opens access to the cooler due to the stroke. The process begins at around 80  C. From around 95  C cooling water temperature, the cooler is fully switched on. During operation, the two-way thermostat achieves a very constant engine temperature because it opens and closes the large and small cooling circuits in constant alternation. Electrically heated thermostats In principle, an electrically heated thermostat works in a very similar way to a normal thermostat, but the expansion material can be heated using an integrated heater. This enables a corresponding control unit to regulate the flow to the cooler very precisely, which enables a further increase in efficiency. The engine runs more cleanly and pollutant emissions are reduced. Since the engine control regulates the thermostat heating based on numerous parameters, it is also referred to as a map-controlled thermostat."
cooling	Water/oil cooler			"The right cooling serves to protect the engine on the one hand and to increase performance on the other. In the kfzteile24 online shop you will find suitable solutions for every car. Whether oil cooler, water cooler, expansion tank, heater cooler or radiator mounting parts - the kfzteile24 range includes numerous high-quality car parts from well-known brand manufacturers such as Hella, febi bilstein, Blue Print or Gates. The affordable alternatives in direct sales also meet all requirements. As a specialist for spare parts and car accessories, we know how important the quality of the parts is and check our goods regularly. In addition to high quality and low prices, we focus on fast shipping. Thanks to a large central warehouse, parts such as water coolers or oil coolers are usually available within 24 hours. Thanks to the 365-day return policy, you can also buy without risk. If you have any questions, do not hesitate to contact our trained service team. The friendly and competent employees will be happy to advise you and will be happy to help you with all your concerns. Oil cooler for a VW Golf 4 Different cooling systems for different tasks With a few exceptions, liquid cooling has become established in the passenger car sector. The coolant is usually a mixture of water and antifreeze, which is supplemented with anti-corrosive agents. In common parlance, it is therefore also referred to as water cooling and has several advantages over air cooling. Water can dissipate large amounts of heat evenly, although less power is required. Using a heating heat exchanger, also known as a heater cooler or heat exchanger, the actually unwanted heat energy can even be used to heat the interior. Liquid cooling is also much quieter than air cooling. Oil cooling can mean many things, but normally - and this is also the case at kfzteile24 - it refers to the cooling of the engine oil in order to maintain its lubricating properties. If the engine oil is too hot, it reduces its service life and promotes wear in the engine compartment. An oil cooler therefore releases the heat from the oil either to the ambient air or to a separate water circuit. The possible concepts are varied and differ from car to car. Therefore, when purchasing an oil cooler and water cooler, make sure you choose the right vehicle."
cooling	Water/oil cooler	surge tank		"The expansion tank for the coolant has the task of collecting coolant that expands when heated. It is therefore also known as an expansion vessel. Thermal expansion is a physical law and in the closed coolant circuit of a car is also accompanied by an increase in pressure. The increase in pressure increases the boiling point of the coolant, which can then absorb even more energy and finally release it into the ambient air at the radiator. However, the pressure must not be too high in order to avoid damaging hoses, lines and seals. Depending on the manufacturer, a pressure relief valve opens at an overpressure of 0.5 - 2.0 bar so that coolant can escape into the expansion tank. The pressure in the cooling system drops. Expansion tank from Blue Print Expansion tank for a Golf 4 Coolant level in the expansion tank varies If the vehicle is turned off, the coolant temperature drops and the reduction in volume of the coolant creates a negative pressure. Without additional water from the expansion tank, the negative pressure could pull the radiator hoses and lines together and even dent the radiator. To prevent this from happening, a negative pressure valve opens the access to the expansion tank so that coolant can flow into the circuit. It is therefore not unusual for the coolant level in the expansion tank to fluctuate. Just make sure that the maximum level is not exceeded when the engine is warm and that the minimum level is not exceeded when the engine is cold."
cooling	Water/oil cooler	Heater cooler		"A heater cooler is a typical heat exchanger or heat transfer device, as it should be called. Its job is to make the engine heat usable for heating the interior. The energy released during combustion in the cylinders can only be partially converted into torque and used for propulsion. The remaining energy is lost in the form of heat and light or even damages the engine. To prevent thermal overload, cars have a cooling circuit in which the heat is absorbed by the coolant and released into the air at the cooler. For the circuit itself, however, it is not important where the cooling water transfers the absorbed energy, so it makes sense to make this usable for heating the passenger compartment, especially in winter. Heater cooler or interior heater for a VW Golf 4 Heater cooler from febi bilstein Heat cheaply thanks to the heater cooler The heated cooling water flows through the heater cooler, which is usually made of metal, is usually installed behind the dashboard and has good thermal conductivity. With the help of the interior fan, air is directed past the fins of the heater cooler, which then heats up and is blown into the passenger compartment. The heater cooler thus cools the coolant and heats the interior with beneficial surplus heat. If the interior heating is not needed, for example in summer, the coolant only flows to the cooler and the heat is transferred to the ambient air."
cooling	Water/oil cooler	Radiator mounting parts		"A car's radiator is an important component in the vehicle's cooling circuit and is usually located at the front. There, the airflow or an extra fan can cool down the warm cooling water coming from the engine. The narrow component, which is usually equipped with fins, must of course be mounted securely, which in turn requires fastening parts. Rubber-metal bearings are usually used as fastening parts, which have the advantage over simple screws that the radiator is decoupled from the rest of the body. This prevents vibrations and reduces noise."
cooling	Water/oil cooler	oil cooler		"As its name suggests, the oil cooler has the task of cooling a car's engine oil. This is necessary because modern, powerful units generate a lot of heat, which puts a strain on the components involved, such as cylinders, pistons, and seals. The oil absorbs the heat from inside the engine and transports it to the outside. Despite its high boiling point, the oil must not get too hot so as not to lose its primary lubricating function. A separate oil cooler helps to dissipate the heat. The oil flows through the oil cooler, which is made of heat-conducting metal and is usually mounted at the front of the vehicle. The thermal energy is ultimately released into the ambient air by the air flow when driving or by a separate fan. Oil coolers can also be water-cooled by being integrated into the coolant circuit. When driving, the heat from the oil is first transferred to the water and then transferred to the air at the cooler. an air-cooled oil cooler a water-cooled oil cooler Cooling as a prerequisite for high-performance cars Dealing with thermal energy is one of the greatest challenges when developing high-performance engines. The forces released by combustion can only be partially converted into movement, while the unavoidable heat affects all areas. Cylinders, pistons and seals must not warp or deform, and a vehicle's electrics only function within a certain temperature range. Oil coolers play an important role in this context and help to protect both the engine itself and indirectly all other components from excessive heat."
cooling	Water/oil cooler	Water cooler/parts		"The cooler has the task of transferring the heat absorbed by the coolant to the surrounding air. It is therefore an essential component of any liquid cooling system. The cooler consists of two coolant boxes, which are either mounted above and below the cooler block or, as in the cross-flow cooler, on the right and left. The coolant flows through the cooler network - depending on the design, either from the side or from top to bottom - and releases the heat to the surrounding air at this point. To support this process, the cooler network is made up of a system of pipes and fins, which together offer the largest possible surface area. The airflow guides air past the cooler network and transfers the energy. A separate cooling fan can maintain the air flow in the event of a traffic jam or slow-moving traffic. Cooler for a Ford Fiesta a cooler from Hella Cooling effect of a cooler A cooler in the front of the vehicle achieves a cooling of the coolant by approx. 6-7  Celsius. Depending on the design and size, significantly greater temperature gradients are also possible. If the coolant passes through the cooler twice, for example, the cooling effect improves significantly. Low and high temperature zones within a cooler are also conceivable and are often used to meet different cooling requirements. For engine cooling, a temperature gradient of 6-7  Celsius is usually sufficient, but to cool the transmission oil, the difference should be greater. Additional oil coolers support the process, so that intensive cooling of up to 20  Celsius is achieved."
cooling	Water pumps/seals			"The water pump is a crucial accessory in a car because it drives the coolant, which absorbs the engine heat and transports it out of the engine. Liquid cooling, as used in modern combustion engines, offers decisive advantages over pure air cooling. Water can absorb a larger amount of heat and the cooling is even. Since the individual engine parts therefore only have small temperature differences, stresses and distortion are avoided. The power density of the engine can therefore be increased. Liquid cooling with a water pump also works more efficiently than comparable air cooling, since the pump uses significantly less energy than a fan. Finally, water cooling also increases comfort, since there is significantly less noise and the water jacket even provides additional damping. In winter, the warm coolant can easily be used via a heater cooler to heat the interior, thus ensuring comfortable temperatures. Water pumps are often offered with toothed belts or V-ribbed belts. Suitable seals for the water pump are either included or can be purchased separately from kfzteile24. Water pump drive Depending on the engine concept, the car's water pump is usually driven by a toothed belt or a V-ribbed belt. The energy is taken from the crankshaft via corresponding pulleys and transmitted force-fitting. Because changing the water pump requires dismantling the belt, water pumps are often offered as a package with a toothed belt set or a V-ribbed belt set. You can also buy the inexpensive bundles cheaply at kfzteile24. The water pumps, also known as coolant pumps, differ in whether they are mechanical pumps that take the necessary torque directly from the engine or whether they have their own electric motor as electric water pumps. The electric version offers the advantage of being able to operate the pump even when the engine is not running. Changing a defective water pump Water pumps are usually maintenance-free, but can break down due to corrosion, frost or thermal and mechanical stress. A common but avoidable cause is the coolant, which has not been sufficiently mixed with the appropriate antifreeze. The wrong antifreeze can lead to chemical reactions that not only attack hoses and seals, but can also affect the coolant pump. The first sign of problems in the coolant circuit is a consistently low coolant level. Instead of simply topping up the water, you should determine the cause. Often leaky hoses or seals are to blame, but the pump itself can also leak. The replacement should then be carried out in a specialist workshop.Especially if the pump is driven by a toothed belt, it is advisable to leave the repair to a specialist in order to avoid problems with the engine control."
cooling	Water pumps/seals	poetry		"To prevent coolant from leaking out of the water pump, a seal is required, which is usually made of rubber. The polymer is vulcanized to form an elastomer that can be deformed but returns to its original shape. The seal prevents coolant from the cooling water system from leaking out of the water pump. Like all rubber, temperature fluctuations can cause the material to become brittle over time and eventually lose its sealing function. Seal of a water pump Change the seal of the water pump? Water pumps are usually replaced as a whole, because modular replacement is the cheaper alternative in everyday workshop use. Opening the water pump instead and only replacing the leaking seal is more advisable for collectors' cars and hobbyists. As automobile enthusiasts with a heart for vintage and classic cars, we want to give you the right spare parts for such projects too."
cooling	Water pumps/seals	Pulley		"The water pump or the coolant pump of a car is often driven by a belt that transmits the torque of the crankshaft. The belt and the pulleys of the belt drive form a force-locking connection. With a toothed belt, the power transmission is even positive, so that even very high forces can be transmitted. The pump itself usually has an impeller that is connected to the pulley and rotates within the pump housing. The coolant is sucked in by the rotation of the pump wheel in the center and pushed out of the pump housing towards the engine. There it absorbs thermal energy and is passed on to the radiator (or to the heater cooler if the heater is switched on). Pulley for a cooling water pump with V-ribbed belt drive Electronically controlled coolant pumps A water pump integrated into the toothed belt drive or V-ribbed belt drive by means of a pulley delivers its power depending on the engine speed. Map-controlled variants go a step further, however. The pump is no longer driven by a pulley but by an electric motor. The corresponding control unit is now able to vary the pump's delivery capacity and adapt it to all situations. The efficiency of the cooling system increases, which is reflected in reduced fuel consumption and fewer emissions."
coupling	coupling			"The clutch in brief A clutch is the detachable connection between the engine and the transmission in the drive train of a car. Its primary task is to transfer the engine torque to the transmission and to interrupt the power connection for shifting. A clutch enables smooth starting by slipping, dampens torsional vibrations of the engine and protects both the engine and the drive train from the transmission of excessive forces. 1. Buy a clutch from kfzteile24 As a specialist in the trade of spare parts and car accessories, kfzteile24 naturally also has clutch kits, flywheels, release bearings, guide bearings and parts for clutch actuation in its range, which you can buy cheaply online from us. Clutches are complex mechanical systems that have a variety of tasks and whose friction components are subject to natural wear. Since they represent the crucial link between the engine and the transmission, quality should be the main focus when buying clutches. For this reason, we work with brand manufacturers such as LuK, ZF Sachs, Blue Print, febi bilstein and SKF. Clutch parts in the bargain category also meet all requirements and are regularly checked. In addition to high-quality spare parts, the delivery time also plays a decisive role for our customers. We usually ship ordered goods within 24 hours. Car workshops, petrol stations and breakdown services also appreciate the fast delivery. If you have any questions about clutches or spare parts in general, please contact our support team. Our support team will advise you in a friendly and competent manner. Thanks to the 365-day right of return, you take no risk and can buy with confidence and without worry. 2. Tasks of a clutch Transmission of torque The clutch ensures that the transmission receives the torque required for the driving situation across the entire speed range of the engine. Jerk-free starting When the engine is running and the transmission is not in motion, the clutch must adjust the speeds so that a smooth, jerk-free start is possible. This is done through sliding friction (slip). Two-mass flywheel from Sachs Enables shifting In order to be able to shift quickly and smoothly, the power connection between the engine and the transmission must be interrupted. The clutch achieves this by separating the flywheel and the clutch disc. Damping of torsional vibrations The crankshaft experiences torsional vibrations due to the alternation between thrust and tension of the connecting rods, as well as the different combustion pressures of the individual cylinders. The clutch must dampen these vibrations in order to minimize wear and noise. Protection against overloading Since the power is transmitted between the engine and the transmission by friction, the clutch protects against the transmission of excessive torque in both directions. If the worst happens, this limits the damage.Affordable clutch kit in the bargain category Central releaser from Sachs 3. Structure and function of a clutch Clutches can basically be divided into single-disk and multi-disk clutches, which are also operated mechanically or hydraulically. The functional principle is similar, however. A single-disk diaphragm spring clutch usually consists of a flywheel that is mounted on the crankshaft and rotates according to the engine speed. A pressure plate presses the clutch disc with its friction linings against the rotating flywheel. After overcoming the slip, the clutch disc rotates with the flywheel in a force-locking manner and thus transfers the torque of the engine to the gearbox. When disengaging the clutch, a releaser attached to the release fork pushes or pulls a leaf spring (depending on the model), causing the pressure plate to detach from the clutch disc and the clutch disc to be separated from the flywheel. Due to the friction, the friction linings of the clutch disc wear out over time, with the individual driving style having a significant influence on the replacement interval. Clutches with automatic pressure plate adjustment adjust themselves when the lining wears and promise a longer service life, but they also wear out eventually. 4. If the clutch slips, only replacement will help A slipping clutch is defined as too little contact pressure between the flywheel and the clutch disc, so that the power transmission cannot be guaranteed. The problem is particularly evident when changing gears and can affect both manual and automatic cars. However, the causes lie elsewhere. While with manual gear shifting it is mainly the driver who contributes to wear through his clutch behavior, with automatic clutch systems there can be defects in the hydraulic actuation. A slipping clutch can be checked, for example, when starting off or with the handbrake on. If the problem occurs, the only solution is usually to replace the clutch.which causes the pressure plate to detach from the clutch disc and the clutch disc to separate from the flywheel. The friction linings on the clutch disc wear out over time as a result of the friction, with the individual driving style having a significant impact on the replacement interval. Clutches with automatic pressure plate adjustment adjust themselves when the lining wears and promise a longer service life, but they also wear out at some point. 4. If the clutch slips, only a change will help A slipping clutch is when the contact pressure between the flywheel and the clutch disc is too weak, so that the power transmission cannot be guaranteed. The problem is particularly apparent when changing gears and can affect both manual transmission cars and vehicles with automatic transmissions. The causes lie elsewhere, however. While with manual gear shifting it is mainly the driver who contributes to wear through his clutch behavior, with automatic clutch systems there may be defects in the hydraulic actuation. A slipping clutch can be checked, for example, when starting off or with the handbrake on. If the problem occurs, the only solution is usually to replace the clutch.which causes the pressure plate to detach from the clutch disc and the clutch disc to separate from the flywheel. The friction linings on the clutch disc wear out over time as a result of the friction, with the individual driving style having a significant impact on the replacement interval. Clutches with automatic pressure plate adjustment adjust themselves when the lining wears and promise a longer service life, but they also wear out at some point. 4. If the clutch slips, only a change will help A slipping clutch is when the contact pressure between the flywheel and the clutch disc is too weak, so that the power transmission cannot be guaranteed. The problem is particularly apparent when changing gears and can affect both manual transmission cars and vehicles with automatic transmissions. The causes lie elsewhere, however. While with manual gear shifting it is mainly the driver who contributes to wear through his clutch behavior, with automatic clutch systems there may be defects in the hydraulic actuation. A slipping clutch can be checked, for example, when starting off or with the handbrake on. If the problem occurs, the only solution is usually to replace the clutch."
coupling	Guide bearing/thrust washer			"The guide bearing for the clutch is also often referred to as the pilot bearing and acts as a guide for the transmission input shaft. It is usually located at the end of the crankshaft between the engine and the transmission and has a decisive influence on the function and durability of the clutch. The guide bearing rests when the clutch is engaged, i.e. when there is a force-locking connection between the engine and the transmission. When the clutch is operated, however, the pilot bearing must cope with high speeds and speed gradients. Pilot bearing from febi bilstein Guide bearing when the clutch is removed Detecting a defective pilot bearing As typical rolling bearings, the clutch guide bearings are usually only subjected to a small amount of load or not at all, but can cause problems if they are no longer lubricated. Often, screeching noises when the clutch is pressed, especially when it is cold, are the first warning sign. The gears can usually still be shifted cleanly, but if you ignore the noises, you risk greater damage. The pilot bearing will later make itself loudly noticeable even in warm temperatures and will eventually block at some point. In this case, the gearbox input shaft rotates according to the crankshaft speed even when the clutch is disengaged. As a result, the gears can no longer be shifted. Changing the clutch pilot bearing Replacing the pilot bearing requires time, specialist knowledge and special tools because both the gearbox and the clutch usually have to be dismantled. Working on a defective pilot bearing is therefore very labor-intensive and expensive. We still recommend that you have the change carried out in a qualified workshop and, depending on the condition, also replace the crankshaft shaft seal and all worn clutch parts, e.g. as a complete clutch kit, as well as the release bearing or release fork."
coupling	Clutch release bearing/central release bearing			"Clutch release bearings, also known as thrust bearings, are among the wearing parts of a car due to their mechanical stress. At kfzteile24, you will receive clutch release bearings after ordering online in our shop, usually within 24 hours. When ordering, just make sure you choose the right vehicle. The function of a clutch release bearing The release bearing is an essential component of the clutch and is connected to the release fork. When you step on the clutch pedal, the force is transferred mechanically by a cable or hydraulically by two additional cylinders to the release fork and finally to the diaphragm spring of the clutch. This separates the rotating clutch pressure plate from the fixed release mechanism. Since the release bearing is exposed to great forces during this process, wear and tear occurs and ultimately a defect. Symptoms of a defective clutch release bearing The first sign of impending damage to the clutch release bearing is often whistling or grinding noises when the clutch pedal is pressed. These acoustic warning signals sometimes disappear on their own or only occur irregularly, but should not be ignored. You can still use the car, but as soon as the release bearing finally breaks, it is no longer possible to engage the clutch. Accordingly, it is then no longer possible to engage a gear. The grinding noises that often occur before total failure are due to the fact that the clutch discs are no longer separated properly and grind each other down in a short time. In such a case, the entire clutch usually has to be replaced. Gearbox noises when shifting gears or problems when engaging a gear can also be signs of a defective release bearing. Changing the clutch release bearing prevents consequential damage Do not ignore any unusual noises and visit a car workshop as soon as possible to protect yourself from possible consequential damage and high costs. Changing the clutch release bearing requires specialist knowledge and experience and is not possible for laypeople without special tools. You can buy release bearings cheaply from kfzteile24, although the costs for workshop installation are often many times higher due to the time involved. We would be happy to advise you in our workshops in Berlin."
coupling	Clutch release bearing/central release bearing	Release fork		"Function of a release fork when clutching The release fork is connected to the thrust bearing and presses this against the diaphragm spring of the pressure plate when activated. This moves the pressure plate towards the gearbox, so that the clutch disc is released from the flywheel and no rotational movement is transmitted to the gearbox shaft. The stationary gearbox can now be shifted. Without any force being applied to the release fork or release lever, the diaphragm spring presses the pressure plate onto the clutch plate, which in turn is pressed against the flywheel. These processes take place in the millimeter range and repairs to the clutch should only be undertaken by professionals. This ensures that the release travel is set correctly, the release bearing can slide properly and there is no jamming."
coupling	Clutch release bearing/central release bearing	Release bearing		"Release bearings are a central component of every car clutch and are responsible for separating the rotating clutch pressure plate from the fixed release mechanism. Wear and tear is unavoidable. Although release bearings are generally inexpensive, they cannot be installed in a specialist workshop without special tools. This can be expensive and should therefore be avoided. Correct clutch engagement protects the release bearing Word has now gotten around among car enthusiasts that you should not let a clutch slip. Far fewer drivers, however, are aware that depressing the clutch at traffic lights can also have consequences. Although the clutch linings do not drag, the full force of the clutch spring acts on the release bearing. Release bearings are not designed for this constant load and they can be damaged. It is therefore better to disengage the clutch and take your foot off the clutch pedal. Noises indicate a defective release bearing The driver first notices a worn or defective release bearing through unpleasant noises when the clutch pedal is depressed. They can also manifest themselves in problems when selecting gears. If grinding noises are also heard, this is a sign that the release bearing is no longer separating the clutch discs properly. In any case, you should visit a workshop as soon as possible to clarify the problem and avoid possible subsequent damage."
coupling	Clutch release bearing/central release bearing	Sliding sleeve		"Function of sliding sleeves and damage diagnosis The extensive product range includes sliding sleeves for clutches, which are available for different vehicle types. Sliding sleeves are also known as guide sleeves and are a central component of a car clutch. They must be absolutely central and exactly parallel to the main transmission shaft. This is the only way to ensure that the release bearing can slide without problems. Replace damaged sliding sleeves or those showing signs of wear in good time, otherwise problems with clutch engagement will arise, which manifest themselves in slipping or juddering. Worn sliding sleeves can also be the cause of stiff clutch operation. Should sliding sleeves be greased or not? Since sliding sleeves are intended to ensure that the release bearing slides properly, it is logical to grease them in order to minimize friction. This is basically the right approach for metal guide sleeves. However, there are also sliding sleeves where the running surface is made of plastic and which are not greased. Otherwise, clutch dust would settle on the grease and damage the plastic. It is best to ask the manufacturer directly whether your sliding sleeve needs to be greased or not."
coupling	Clutch release bearing/central release bearing	Central release bearing		"In contrast to mechanical clutch actuation, hydraulic clutch actuation does not require cables. Instead, the power is transferred to the piston of the master cylinder via the clutch pedal. The hydraulic pressure built up finally reaches the slave cylinder via connecting hoses and pipes, which is often combined within a central releaser to form a clutch unit. Central releaser from Valeo for Nissas Micro Central releaser from Herth+Buss How the central releaser works The central releaser has the task of releasing the pressure plate from the clutch disc when the clutch is actuated. This happens because the pressure piston of the slave cylinder is moved on the guide sleeve. The release bearing and the pressure ring press against the diaphragm springs of the pressure plate. The spring tongues tilt and the pressure plate detaches from the clutch disc. The frictional connection between the engine and gearbox is interrupted and the gear can be changed. As soon as the clutch pedal is released, the restoring force of the diaphragm spring tongues ensures that the clutch play is compensated and the pressure plate restores the power connection. Replacing the central releaser The central releaser is an important clutch component without which the clutch is not possible. A malfunction is usually noticeable through gear shifting problems. Noises are also possible if the clutch disc starts to grind. To change the gearbox, the gearbox must be separated from the engine, which you should leave to a qualified specialist workshop. The experts can also decide whether other clutch parts need to be replaced."
coupling	Clutch operation			"The clutch is an essential component that has several tasks in a car. But above all it must make it possible to reliably establish the power connection between the engine and gearbox and to separate it when actuated. The clutch can be actuated mechanically or hydraulically. A clutch pedal from febi bilstein A clutch cable for mechanical clutch actuation Mechanical clutch actuation With mechanical clutch actuation, the force of the driver's foot when stepping on the clutch pedal is transferred via a cable or rod to the release lever, which in turn moves the releaser. Depending on the direction, the release is either pressed or pulled. The aim of clutch actuation is always to create a clearance between the flywheel, clutch disc and pressure plate and in this way to separate the power connection. As the friction linings wear, the pressure plate moves towards the flywheel over time and the space between the diaphragm spring tongues and the releaser decreases. The clutch play decreases. If the clutch play is too small, this can lead to the clutch slipping because the contact pressure of the diaphragm spring is no longer high enough. The pads can also overheat or the diaphragm spring can burn out. The flywheel can also be damaged in this case and the friction surfaces can heat up too much in some places. If the clutch actuation system does not have a self-adjustment function, the play must be checked and adjusted regularly. Hydraulic clutch actuation If the clutch is actuated hydraulically, the system consists of a master cylinder, a slave cylinder and hoses or pipes. When the clutch is disengaged, the driver's pedal force builds up pressure in the master cylinder, which is passed on to the slave cylinder without loss through suitable lines. This moves the releaser via a tappet and the release lever. When the clutch is engaged, the force of the diaphragm spring acts in the opposite direction and presses the releaser, release lever and the pistons of the slave and master cylinders into their starting position. The entire system must of course be sealed and offers the advantage of loss-free power transmission even over long distances. Hydraulic transmissions also increase the pedal force. Hydraulic systems are also used in automatic clutch systems, where engagement and disengagement are triggered by sensor signals. Modern double clutches even allow gear shifting without interrupting traction."
coupling	Clutch operation	Pressure accumulator		"Function of the pressure accumulator A pressure accumulator is part of a hydraulic clutch actuation in automatic transmissions. Its job is to maintain the oil pressure built up by a hydraulic pump so that the piston of the slave cylinder can be moved. This piston is connected to the clutch release lever, which in turn opens the clutch using a release bearing. The system is regulated by a control unit that passes on or retains the oil pressure built up via valves. If the pressure accumulator cannot maintain the necessary oil pressure due to leaks, this usually leads to delayed gear shifting because pressure must first be built up again by the pump. This additional load on the hydraulic pump is accompanied by greater wear, so that a defective pressure accumulator often affects the hydraulic pump as well. The problem can be so severe that gear shifting is no longer possible at all. Due to the rather unspecific symptoms, troubleshooting defective pressure accumulators is difficult because lines, valves or the hydraulic pump can also be the cause."
coupling	Clutch operation	Master cylinder		"A quick check of the key properties of master cylinders If a defect is found in the master cylinder, the clutch control no longer works and the car can no longer be shifted. Master cylinders are therefore an important component of a hydraulic clutch control and are comparatively small spare parts. Each master cylinder always has a matching slave cylinder through which the pedal force is transmitted. The driver applies an initial pressure to the master cylinder by stepping on the clutch pedal, which then acts on the hydraulic fluid. The resulting pressure is then transferred to the slave cylinder via a hydraulic line, which increases the input force and ensures that the release bearing moves. Master cylinders must withstand high pressures and are made of gray cast steel, cast steel or aluminum. However, they are usually made of sturdy plastic. Master cylinders are subject to comparatively little wear, but can be damaged. When replacing them, the entire clutch control chain must be checked. If the master cylinder starts to squeak, special lubricants can help."
coupling	Clutch operation	Clutch cable		"Cars with mechanical clutch operation require a cable to transfer the driver's foot force from the clutch pedal to the clutch releaser. This clutch operation cable is also known as the clutch cable. Appropriate lever ratios ensure that the necessary forces are correct and that the pedal travel is not too long for the driver. Clutch cable from f.becker line Clutch adjustment with mechanical clutch operation The linings of the clutch disc wear out over time due to friction, which changes the play between the diaphragm spring tongues of the pressure plate and the releaser. If the clutch play is too small, the clutch can slip due to insufficient contact force. The linings of the clutch disc can then overheat and even the diaphragm springs can burn out. These dramatic consequences can be avoided by regularly adjusting the clutch play. To do this, simply correct the length of the clutch cable using an appropriate adjusting nut. With automatic clutch adjustments, lining wear is regulated by an adjustment device, but this also changes the length of the cable."
coupling	Clutch operation	Slave cylinder		"The interaction between the slave cylinder and the clutch The clutch is operated countless times by the driver of a manual car during a journey and is therefore subject to constant wear. In the past, a cable in the clutch system was usually used to transfer the pedal forces to the pressure plate. However, it is now common for vehicles to be equipped with a hydraulic clutch system. This consists of a so-called master cylinder and a slave cylinder. The receiving cylinder is just one link in a chain and can be seen as an assistant to the master cylinder in a certain way. Both cylinders are connected to one another via a pressure line. When the driver operates the clutch, pressure is built up in the master cylinder by a medium and transferred to the slave cylinder. In cars, the pressure medium is usually brake fluid, as it has all the necessary properties and only one reservoir is required. The slave cylinder, which is equipped with a hydraulic spring, absorbs the pressure that has built up and then passes it on with maximum force via an output line. A defective slave cylinder is a possible cause of clutch problems. If the clutch no longer functions properly, the slave cylinder can be a cause of the problems. However, since it is only part of a long power transmission chain, only an expert can determine where the fault lies. For example, cracks in the line, such as the clutch hose, are also possible causes of a loss of performance in the clutch system."
coupling	Clutch operation	pedal		"The clutch pedal is part of the necessary standard equipment in every manual car because it is an important part of the clutch operation. The clutch is opened by a clutch cable, but often also hydraulically using a slave cylinder and master cylinder. This is necessary to separate the engine from the gearbox and to change gear. This allows the speed and torque of the engine to be changed and adapted to the respective driving situation. Clutch pedal for a manual car Changing the clutch pedal The clutch pedal is usually operated with the left foot in right-hand traffic and the applied non-slip rubber covering can wear out over time. If you no longer have a safe feeling when operating the clutch pedal, it is time to change the pedal covering or the clutch pedal. This is usually relatively easy in cars with cables, but vehicles with hydraulic clutch operation should be serviced by a specialist. Cars with automatic transmissions do not have a clutch pedal at all because the separation of the clutch is regulated by the control unit."
coupling	Clutch operation	Hoses/pipes		"Clutches can be operated either mechanically or hydraulically, with hydraulic systems having the advantage that they do not transmit vibrations, thus increasing driving comfort. Peak torque limiters can also be used to avoid torque peaks when engaging the clutch. The clutch lines therefore form the connection between the clutch pedal, the clutch master cylinder and the clutch slave cylinder or the central releaser. Clutch line from Blue Print What is the clutch line needed for? As with any hydraulic system, the power is transmitted using fluid. The pressure built up by the foot pedal reaches the master cylinder and is then passed on to the central releaser or the clutch slave cylinder. For this reason, it is important that the system is absolutely leak-proof and that lines and hoses are checked regularly. The pressure hoses are usually long-lasting, but can still become porous and even tear over time."
coupling	Clutch kit			"Function of a clutch The clutch kit comprises the clutch disc, the clutch pressure plate and the release bearing, which work together to ensure that the engine torque is transferred safely to the gearbox. The clutch not only transfers the power, it is also supposed to interrupt it in order to be able to change gear. When the car is stationary, the clutch enables you to start off smoothly because the pressure plate uses its spring force to press the clutch disc ever more firmly against the flywheel, thus adjusting the speed of the gearbox input shaft to the speed of the crankshaft. The flywheel, which in modern clutch kits such as those from LuK is also a dual-mass flywheel, dampens the torsional vibrations of the engine to avoid noise during the clutch process and to increase driving comfort. The additional mass on the gearbox input shaft also suppresses the transmission of unwanted vibrations, thus protecting its components and preventing gearbox wear. Change the clutch as a wearing part regularly Due to the way it works, the clutch is, alongside the brakes, one of the most heavily stressed components in a car. Despite the damping, it is exposed to vibrations, pressure and of course frictional heat and must be checked regularly to ensure driving safety. It is generally recommended to replace the entire clutch kit if necessary, but of course individual components such as the clutch pressure plate or the flywheel can also be replaced separately. Get advice from a specialist about what is the best decision for your car in each individual case. Due to the high safety relevance, a clutch kit should always be professionally installed and adjusted by a workshop."
coupling	flywheel			"The flywheel or dual-mass flywheel is the prerequisite for reducing the uneven rotational movements of a piston engine. As the counterpart and friction partner of the clutch disc, the flywheel is subject to natural wear. Scores or dents can be ground down within certain tolerances. If this is no longer possible, the only solution is to buy a new one. A flywheel or dual-mass flywheel that needs to be replaced is clearly evident in an uneven engine running, gear rattling and humming or howling noises in certain speed ranges. The flywheel, which is connected to the crankshaft in a rotationally fixed manner, is not only important for the clutch process, but also has a ring gear into which the starter is engaged when the engine is started. The starter uses the flywheel to turn the crankshaft so that the pistons move and the fuel-air mixture can be compressed and finally ignited. How does a flywheel work? The flywheel is attached to the end of the crankshaft and resembles a flat, heavy disk. This dead weight is necessary in order to use the physical principle of inertia and to reduce the natural frequency of the system below the idle speed. Resonance is prevented and the energy stored in the flywheel helps to compensate for idle cycles. This means that you can usually continue driving even if a cylinder fails, but of course you should take the vehicle straight to the workshop. The dual-mass flywheel is a further development that was developed in the 1980s. It is divided into a primary and secondary flywheel, with the primary flywheel functioning in a similar way to a conventional flywheel. The secondary flywheel, on the other hand, is installed on the transmission side and coupled to the primary flywheel by means of springs. The spring units can be specifically adjusted so that comfortable and quiet driving is possible. Flywheels and dual-mass flywheels are usually made of cast steel."
steering	steering			"Steering in brief Steering allows the driver of a car to determine the turning angle of the front wheels and thus the direction of travel. The torque generated by turning the steering wheel is amplified by the steering and transferred to the steering knuckles. Cars are steered using steering knuckles. Trailers are steered using turntable steering. 1. Basics of steering The steering of a vehicle consists of numerous parts which, when combined, enable the front wheels to be turned or swiveled. The initial force in the form of torque comes from the driver, who turns the steering wheel in one direction or the other. This mechanical movement is transferred to the steering gear via the steering column and the steering spindle. The steering gear in turn converts the rotary movement into a sideways movement and transfers the force to the tie rod. The axial movement of the tie rod and the tie rod levers attached to both sides form a variable steering trapezoid, through which the steering knuckles are swiveled to the desired turning angle. The special thing about this so-called steering knuckle is the correct alignment of the front wheels, whereby the inner wheel describes a smaller circle when cornering and therefore requires a larger steering angle, while the outer wheel has to be turned less. Tie rod from f.becker Joint of a steering column from febi bilstein 2. Steering knuckle steering in vehicles In contrast to turntable steering with a rigid steering axle, as is often used on trailers, cars are steered using steering knuckles. Two steering axles enable different steering angles to be achieved on the front wheels, which means that perfect rolling is possible even when cornering. The difference between the steering angle of the wheel on the inside of the curve and the outer wheel is known as the track difference angle and results from the fact that the outer wheel has to travel a larger circle radius with the same circle center. Steering knuckle steering is implemented by the tie rod and the tie rod levers attached to both sides, which swivel the steering knuckles to the correct steering angle. The tie rod must be shorter than the axle body to create lever arms of unequal length. As a result, the extensions of all wheel axles intersect in the center of the curve (Ackermann principle). An indication of a correctly adjusted steering trapezoid made up of tie rod levers and tie rod can be found by imagining the extension of the tie rod levers when driving straight ahead. They must meet in the middle of the rear axle. 3. Parts of the steering The steering consists of numerous components that work together to transfer the torque generated by the driver on the steering wheel into a steering angle of the wheels. The following table provides an overview of the task and function of each steering part.Part of the steering Function and method of operation Steering wheel The driver of a car can use the steering wheel to swivel the wheels from the straight-ahead position so that the vehicle can corner. It is usually foamed and has recessed grips. The steering wheel is sometimes covered in leather for optical reasons and to provide a better grip. In addition to the steering function, the steering wheel in modern vehicles also contains an airbag. Steering column The steering column absorbs the torque generated by the driver and transfers it to the steering spindle. The rod or tube-shaped support can often be adjusted in height, angle and distance from the driver. Additional switches and the ignition lock are usually attached to the steering column. Due to their design and position, steering columns pose a great danger to the driver in the event of a frontal rear-end collision. Developed safety concepts therefore provide for the steering column to collapse when high forces are applied. Steering spindle The steering spindle is a connecting part between the steering column and the steering gear which transfers the torque. The steering spindle usually consists of several universal joints and must be designed in such a way that there is no steering play, feedback from the road reaches the steering wheel and the steering wheel is in the middle position when driving straight ahead. Steering gear The main task of the steering gear is to convert the rotary movement into a linear movement so that the tie rod can move to the right or left. To do this, in the rack and pinion steering gear the torque of the steering spindle is transferred to the rack via a pinion. In order to ensure sensitive and dynamic steering, modern vehicles often use power steering systems that minimize the effort required by the driver. Tie rod The force converted by the steering gear causes the tie rod to move linearly to the right or left. This movement pivots the tie rod levers and aligns the respective steering axis of the wheels. Since the tie rod is smaller than the axle, a steering trapezoid is created and perfect cornering with different steering angles on the inner and outer wheels is possible. Tie rod levers Together with the tie rod, the tie rod levers form the steering trapezoid of a steering knuckle. Each steering knuckle is mounted so that it can rotate and is pulled to the correct angle by the tie rod lever so that the extended center lines of the axles meet at a common center point. 4. Power steering and other power steering systems The term power steering refers to electro-hydraulic and electrical systems for power steering that enable precise steering without the need for physical effort. These electronic aids increase both comfort and safety and are used in almost all cars today.The electric power steering is superior to the electro-hydraulic system in every respect. Instead of dealing with oil, lines, seals and a pump, the support force is generated directly by an electric motor, which is switched on when necessary - especially when driving slowly. The servo motor also allows electronic systems to intervene in the steering process independently of the driver, for example to enable driving safety functions. The servo unit can be attached either to the steering column, to a second pinion on the steering rod or parallel to the axis. The entire system consists of sensors that measure torque and steering position and transmit them to a control unit. The control unit determines the necessary support taking into account the key figures from other assistance systems and regulates the electric motor. Steering gear from TRW"
steering	Hydraulic oil expansion tank			"The expansion tank for the hydraulic oil of the power steering is an important component of every electro-hydraulic power steering system. It is also known as the oil tank and contains the hydraulic medium required for the support. The servo oil is sucked in by the servo pump and flows through steering hoses into the right or left working chamber of the working cylinder, depending on the position of the steering torsion bar. In the working cylinder, in turn, there is a working piston that is connected to the rack. The rack is therefore not only moved by the transmitted force of the pinion in the steering housing, but also by the hydraulic pressure acting on the working piston. For this to be possible, the hydraulic oil must of course be able to flow out of the opposite working chamber of the cylinder. This is done by an opening drain cross-section through which the servo oil is pressed back into the expansion tank. Expansion tank for servo oil Structure of the oil tank The supporting force can be regulated by a control unit by using data from the steering angle sensor as a function of the speed to control the electro-hydraulic converter. This in turn determines the pressure in the steering system. The power steering oil tank itself makes an unspectacular impression and is usually made of semi-transparent plastic. The oil can be sucked in and pressed back in through two connections on the bottom. The shape of the expansion tank depends on the vehicle and the engine and is based on the space available. If necessary, power steering oil can be refilled through an opening. The expansion tank is robust and designed to last the life of the car. However, if it has been damaged for any reason, it must be replaced quickly to avoid damage to the steering gear."
steering	Bellows			"A bellows is a folded tube that can stretch elastically like an accordion. Its job is to protect machine parts that move mechanically against each other from dirt and other influences. They are used in cars, among other things, in the steering system, where they enclose the connection between the steering gear and the tie rod. This prevents dirt from penetrating the steering gear, which would increase wear there. The bellows for the steering are therefore also called steering boots. The material used is usually rubber or plastic. Bellows set Steering Changing the bellows Dirt can penetrate the rack and pinion steering gear through a damaged bellows, which can also damage the tie rod joints. It is therefore recommended that torn steering boots be replaced promptly. The work should always be carried out by a qualified specialist workshop, as any intervention in the steering linkage leads to a change in the track. This must be readjusted after the work to ensure driving safety and even tire wear."
steering	Joints			"In order for a car's steering to work, steering forces must be transferred to the wheels. The steering angle of the steering knuckles is determined on the front axle with the help of the steering gear, the two-part tie rod and the tie rod ends so that both wheels follow an imaginary circular path according to their curve radius. The different angles result in the track difference angle and can only be achieved with appropriate joints. Tie rod end from f.becker line Tie rod with axial joint Structure of the steering The steering axle consists of the steering gear, which is usually hydraulically or electrically supported and moves sideways by the driver's steering angle. At both ends of the steering gear, a part of the two-part tie rod is attached with an axial joint. The connection is protected by a bellows to keep wear to a minimum. The tie rods, in turn, are attached to the steering knuckle with a tie rod end. The construction forms the so-called steering trapezoid and allows precise steering in all driving conditions. Replacing the joints Stable rubber bearings are used in both the tie rod axial joint and the tie rod end, which enable low-vibration power transmission. Noise levels are reduced and driving comfort is increased. The bearings also prevent shocks and vibrations from the chassis from being passed on to the steering wheel. At the same time, direct feedback from the ground should remain possible. If you notice that the steering is more spongy than usual, unusual noises are occurring or there is play in the steering wheel, the steering must be checked. The tie rod ends are often affected, as their rubber bearings become porous over time and may tear. However, replacing damaged axial joints and tie rod ends should always be carried out in a workshop, as the track must then be readjusted. The track adjustment guarantees correct driving behavior and ensures even wear on the tires."
steering	Steering gear / hydraulic pump			"Steering power boost by hydraulic pump or electric motor Power steering has become popular in cars so that the driver has to use less force to steer. The steering angle is supported by auxiliary systems that are controlled either by a hydraulic pump coupled to the engine or by an independent electric motor. Electric motors offer many advantages because not only the steering angle but also other factors such as speed can be taken into account. The steering support then decreases as the speed increases. A power steering system with a hydraulic pump also runs the risk of the shaft seals (oil seals) becoming leaky over time, which results in the costly replacement of the entire steering gear. Replace or repair a defective steering gear? Since steering gears transfer the steering force to the tie rod, they are exposed to great forces and wear out over time. This can manifest itself in a lack of straight-line travel or too much play in the steering. A stiff steering can also be a sign of a faulty steering gear. The question arises whether it should be replaced or repaired. In principle, it is possible to repair a steering gear, but if oil is leaking from a leak, it is usually not worth it. Your workshop can advise you accordingly."
steering	Steering column			"The steering spindle establishes the connection between the steering column and the steering gear. It consists of universal joints to bridge the different angles via cardan shafts. The axis of rotation of the steering wheel is ultimately more horizontal, while the steering spindle connection of the steering gear is usually installed vertically. Due to the design, a bent universal joint causes an uneven rotation transmission depending on the angle, which is known as cardan error and is undesirable. In order to adjust the rotation speeds between the steering column and the steering gear, another joint must be installed that compensates for the error in the opposite direction. Steering spindle from Meyle Steering columns continue to point the way Despite technological advances, power transmission during steering is still mechanical via the steering column and the steering spindle, and steer-by-wire systems have long been feasible. They have now become established in aircraft construction, but the legal framework is lacking in the automotive sector. By omitting a steering column, driving safety could also be increased, as the risk of being trapped in a rear-end collision would be significantly reduced."
steering	Steering hose/line			"The steering hose or steering line is required in electro-hydraulic power steering systems to transport the servo oil from the expansion tank to the respective working chamber of the working piston and, of course, back again. These are expansion hoses that must be able to minimize pressure fluctuations and pressure peaks. The expansion hose also reduces the noise of the servo pump. Like all hoses in a car's engine, the steering hose does not last forever. The plasticizer in the rubber evaporates over time and the line becomes brittle. Eventually the system threatens to leak, which means that the steering power assistance is ultimately no longer possible. Hydraulic hose for VW Passat Replacing the steering hose Although steering hoses are relatively easy to replace, a so-called servo tester is necessary to examine a servo system in detail. It measures the servo pump pressure when idling and the flow rate when the engine is running. If you are sure that only the line is damaged and all other components of the steering are OK, you can replace the steering hoses without further testing. Then bleed the system by steering from the right to the left stop point several times and refill servo oil if necessary."
steering	Steering column lever			"Steering levers/steering column levers are an important part of the steering system. In order to steer a car, numerous components are required which work together to translate the rotation of the steering wheel into the alignment of the wheels. The steering lever, sometimes also called a steering column lever, transmits the lateral movement of the tie rod to the steering knuckle so that the steering angle of the wheels can be determined. High forces therefore act on steering levers and they are usually built robustly. When replacing the steering lever, care should be taken to ensure that the track must be readjusted in order to ensure safe driving behavior and even tire wear. Clarification of terms: steering lever, steering column lever, steering column switch When purchasing steering column levers, you should make sure to order the correct spare part, as steering column levers can mean both the connection between the wheels and the tie rod (steering lever) and a switch arm that can be found on the steering wheel (steering column switch). At kfzteile24 you can find these steering column switches in the electrics section in the switches category."
steering	Steering suspension			"The steering gear is the most important part of the steering system, as it converts the rotational movement of the steering wheel into a lateral movement, which ultimately determines the steering angle of the wheels via tie rods and steering knuckles. Depending on the vehicle, the steering gear is attached to the body or axle carrier with suitable rubber bearings. This dampens vibrations that could otherwise be noticeable as unpleasant vibrations in the steering wheel. The steering suspension should also prevent the steering gear from being damaged and, for example, the drive pinion from wearing out excessively or the power steering from becoming leaky. Bearings of a steering gear for a VW Golf 3 Changing the steering gear bearings The bearings of the steering gear are usually very robust, but like all other parts of the suspension, they can be damaged. They are usually made of rubber, but metal ball bearings are now also available. The bearings have the task of dampening impacts resulting from unevenness in the road so that the driver can steer in a relaxed manner. If you notice that unusual jolts occur when driving, you should have the bearings checked. If the plasticizer has evaporated from the rubber, they will become porous over time and can tear. Replacing them is a bit of work and should always be carried out by a specialist workshop."
steering	Steering damper			"The steering damper fulfils two main tasks. Firstly, it minimises the risk of the vehicle's steering ""swaying"" or ""wobbling"". This ensures safe straight-line travel. Secondly, the relief ensures that the components of the steering system and also the wheels are subject to less wear. Traditionally, steering dampers are part of the design of motorcycles in particular, as they only have two wheels and are more prone to wobbling. When a motorcycle accelerates, the front wheel can lift up and then land back on the road slightly offset. This can cause the handlebars to suddenly swing away when contact is made. The steering damper now ensures that the vibration that occurs is suppressed as far as possible and that there is no rocking due to resonance. In this case, the fall would be difficult to avoid. Modern cars generally no longer require steering dampers due to their design. However, there are models in which they are still an important part of the vehicle. This is particularly true for sports cars. Steering damper from Meyle The differences to the classic shock absorber A steering damper in a car should not be confused with the classic shock absorber. A shock absorber is designed to reduce the vibrations of the vehicle suspension and convert this movement into heat. It should therefore actually be called a vibration damper. A steering damper, on the other hand, is explicitly connected to the vibrations of the steering system and can therefore be seen as a kind of assistant to the shock absorber. In general, the smoother the steering, the more important it is to equip it with its own damper. Steering dampers can be found, for example, in vehicles of the G-Class and C-Class from Mercedes-Benz, in the Mercedes-Benz SLK and in the Nissan Patrol."
steering	Steering angle sensor			"A steering angle sensor, also called a steering wheel angle sensor, measures the steering angle of the steering wheel. The value determined is required as part of the vehicle dynamics control. This allows the Electronic Stability Program (ESP) to align the driver's intention with the laws of physics and prevent the car from skidding out of control. The steering wheel angle sensor is installed in the steering column and can be implemented using optical, magnetic or resistance sensors. Depending on the design, a distinction is made between absolute measuring sensors and inductive sensors, which measure the steering angle as a deviation from a fixed point. The sensor must of course be calibrated by the workshop when it is installed."
steering	Oils			"In order to assist the driver when steering, hydraulic steering systems were developed which act on the movable rack of the steering gear using oil pressure in a working cylinder. If the force used is controlled electronically, this is referred to as electro-hydraulic power steering (Servotronic). In contrast to servoelectric, hydraulic oil is required to transmit the support forces. This power steering oil or steering gear oil is collected in the oil tank and pumped to the steering gear by means of a servo pump through expansion hoses. Steering gear oil from febi bilstein Change power steering oil? Power steering oil can age like any other oil, but is subject to significantly less stress than engine oil and is therefore changed less frequently. In modern vehicles with the appropriate filter technology, it often fulfills its function for the entire life of the car. It is therefore usually only topped up if there is a loss of oil in the servo system due to leaks. However, a blanket statement is not possible as there are major differences between individual vehicle manufacturers. A look at your car's service booklet will tell you whether the power steering fluid needs to be changed. If the system has to be opened due to necessary repairs, you should not forget to flush the system afterwards, otherwise contamination could damage the precision parts in the steering system."
steering	Tie rods			"The task of the tie rod in a car is to ensure the steering movement. Usually, cars have split tie rods that connect the steering gear to the front steering knuckles or wheel carriers on the left and right. The tie rod is also responsible for keeping the car's wheels in track, which is where the name comes from. A tie rod usually consists of a metal tube with a ball joint on each side. The length of the connecting rod can usually be adjusted using a longitudinal thread so that the track can be set correctly. The correct track setting is important to ensure even wear on the wheels and to enable the vehicle to travel straight ahead. If work has been carried out on the steering linkage or if repairs are planned after an accident, a new adjustment is always carried out. Tie rod for a VW Golf 2 Tie rod set with bellows Replacing the tie rod Tie rods are robust components that are normally designed for the life of the car and often only need to be completely replaced after an accident. However, the probability of a defect increases with the number of kilometers driven. Problems occur more frequently after around 150,000 km. The tie rod ends, on the other hand, are susceptible to wear and tear, as they are constantly subjected to frictional forces. This wear and tear is accelerated by uneven road surfaces and potholes. The first signs of worn tie rod joints and bearings are usually discovered during maintenance work in the workshop. The driver can tell that problems with the tie rod are due to knocking noises or vibrations in the steering wheel. Excessive play in the steering can also be a sign of a defect."
steering	Tie rods	Repair kit		"The tie rod of a car is part of the steering knuckle and has the task of transmitting the steering movement of the steering gear. Unlike the tie rod end, the tie rod is not a wearing part. It is usually only replaced when mechanical stress has deformed it. These forces usually only occur in the event of an accident. However, a damaged bellows that is not replaced can also damage the tie rod or the tie rod's axial joint, as water and dirt can penetrate and promote corrosion. Tie rod repair kit Tie rod repair kit When you buy a repair kit for the tie rod, you usually get a tie rod with the corresponding joint, as well as the matching bellows and two retaining clamps. Depending on the kit, the set can contain the necessary parts for both the right and left side. However, tie rod repair kits are more often offered for a specific installation side. It is also advisable to check the tie rod ends at this time and replace them if necessary. The replacement should be carried out in a specialist workshop, as the track must be measured and adjusted after the intervention. This ensures the desired driving behavior and minimizes tire wear."
steering	Tie rods	Tie rods		"The tie rod and the associated tie rod end are important parts of the steering knuckle in a car. They transmit the steering movement to the wheels and thus ensure that the steering angle desired by the driver is set. The tie rods are located to the right and left of the steering gear and are each connected to it via an axial joint. A bellows protects the connection from moisture and dirt in order to prevent corrosion and wear. Tie rod from f.becker line Replacing the tie rod or tie rod ends Defective tie rods or tie rod ends are manifested by a number of typical symptoms. For example, cracked tie rod ends can lead to play in the steering and can be manifested by unusual movements in the steering wheel when driving over uneven ground. The rod itself does not necessarily have to be replaced. However, it can also be affected by corrosion or warp due to unusual mechanical loads or break due to corresponding vibrations. Fortunately, these types of damage are the exception. Don't forget to do the wheel alignment and track adjustment. The tie rods and tie rod ends should always be replaced in a specialist workshop. Although the parts are easy to reach if you have a car lift, the final wheel alignment and track adjustment is a job for specialists. This ensures the desired driving behavior and minimizes tire wear."
steering	Tie rods	Tie rod parts		"In modern vehicles, the tie rod is usually split in two and the corresponding tubes are attached to the steering gear using an axial joint. A bellows protects the connection on each side from dirt and water. This significantly reduces wear, so that tie rods usually last the entire life of the car. The situation is different with the tie rod ends, which are screwed onto the tie rod and connected to the steering knuckle via a rubber bearing. The rubber becomes harder and harder over time and eventually porous. As soon as it tears, this defect manifests itself in spongy driving behavior. Play in the steering is also a clear indication that the tie rod ends should be checked. Tie rod end from f.becker line Changing the tie rod end Changing the tie rod end is a relatively simple process, but it does require a lifting platform and a ball head puller. After removing the wheel, both the lock nut and the screw on the tie rod end are oiled. The lock nut should then be easier to loosen. Once the screw has been removed, the tie rod end can be pressed out of the steering knuckle. When unscrewing, you should remember the number of turns so that you can screw the new tie rod end back on accordingly. This is assembled in reverse order and tightened to the correct torque. Since the repair involves intervening in the axle geometry, an axle alignment must be carried out. This is the only way to ensure the desired driving behavior and minimize tire wear. The costs vary depending on the workshop, but you should budget for 200 to 300 euros. In any case, have the tie rod ends replaced on both sides, because the state of wear is usually similar."
steering	Transmission parts steering			"Nowadays, vehicle steering is usually achieved using rack and pinion steering gears, but that was not always the case. Worm roller steering and recirculating ball steering were used until the 1970s and 1980s and can still be found in many classic cars and collector's vehicles from Opel and Mercedes-Benz, for example. Recirculating ball steering in particular was characterized by its low wear and smooth operation even without a servo system. The movement of the steering wheel is guided by screw ball bearings and transmitted to the wheels by means of steering levers. The steering levers are also known as bell cranks or steering column levers. If the transmission path is longer, they are also referred to as steering rods. Steering levers from febi bilstein Changing the steering levers and steering rods Changing steering levers and steering rods largely follows the replacement of suspension parts. The vehicle must be placed on a lift and the wheels are removed. Prepare the connections with penetrating oil, as the parts are often very tight. The steering levers and steering rods are finally loosened and replaced using the appropriate force-removal tool. If you have no experience with vehicles, it is better to leave the replacement to a workshop. You can buy the steering rods, steering column levers and bell cranks you need cheaply from us and then have them installed at an hourly rate."
engine	engine			"An engine is basically a machine that converts energy into movement. Internal combustion engines such as the Otto engine and the diesel engine are of crucial importance for cars, but electric motors are also becoming increasingly important. Internal combustion engines as we know them today are a further development of the steam engine and have had a significant influence on the course of history. While the steam engine ushered in the age of industrialization, the merging of the world in the sense of globalization is inconceivable without engines. In order to transport people and goods, energy is required, which is usually chemically bound and obtained through combustion. Fossil fuels still make up the largest share of energy sources, but hydrogen for hydrogen internal combustion engines and fuel cells have also already made it to market maturity. Structure of an internal combustion engine Despite increasing environmental awareness and increasingly strict environmental regulations, Otto engines and diesel engines form the backbone of our mobility. Almost every car has such a central engine. The combustion of the respective fuel (petrol or diesel) moves the pistons in the cylinders and the reciprocating movement is converted into a rotary movement by means of connecting rods and crankshaft. The torque generated is available to drive the wheels. At the same time, a generator feeds the battery, so that additional systems can also be operated by the engine. Hydrogen combustion engines are a special form of common combustion engines, which should not be confused with the fuel cell concept of some electric motors. They work in a similar way to gasoline engines, although hydrogen has a significantly higher ignition temperature. Engine with red valve cover The power of an engine is determined by the speed and the torque. The elastic range is usually between 2,000 and 4,500 rpm. (Image: UfukSaraCoglu @istockphoto.com) How does a four-stroke engine work? The four-stroke engine (more precisely the four-stroke reciprocating piston engine) is currently the most common variant of a combustion engine in automobile construction and was patented as early as 1860. Since then, the functional principle has not changed and other engine concepts such as Wankel engines, swashplate engines or opposed piston engines have not yet been able to gain acceptance. The cycle looks like this: 1st stroke: Intake The first stroke begins with the piston at top dead center. The exhaust valves for the exhaust gases have just closed and the intake valves are beginning to open. The piston moves downwards in the cylinder and creates a vacuum, which either sucks the fuel-air mixture into the cylinder or just the air required for combustion. In this case, the fuel is injected later.When the bottom dead center is reached, the intake valves are closed. 2nd stroke: compression and ignition Both the intake valves and the exhaust valves are closed when the piston returns from its bottom dead center to its top dead center. The mixture of fuel and air in the cylinder cannot escape and is compressed by the cylinder. Pressure and temperature rise. In diesel engines, the heat is sufficient for the mixture to ignite itself. Gasoline engines require an additional ignition system that causes the spark to jump to the spark plugs at the moment when the piston is close to its top dead center. The engine electronics determine the exact ignition point based on numerous sensor data. Animation of a four-stroke engine 1st stroke: intake, 2nd stroke: compression/ignition, 3rd stroke: work, 4th stroke: exhaust (Image: UtzOnBike @wikimedia.org (CC BY-SA 3.0)) 3rd stroke: work The engine develops its power in the work stroke because when the valves are closed the burning mixture has nowhere to escape and ensures that the piston is pushed towards bottom dead center. The explosive combustion reaches pressures of between 120 bar (gasoline engine) and 160 bar (diesel engine). When the piston has reached the bottom, the exhaust valves begin to open and the final stroke can begin. 4th stroke: exhaust When the exhaust valves are open, the piston moves back up and pushes the cooled but still very hot exhaust gas out of the cylinder. Shortly before top dead center the intake valves begin to open while the exhaust valves are still closing. This valve overlap is intentional in order to gain as much time as possible for filling with new combustion air and starting the four-stroke cycle from the beginning. Intake and exhaust valves can usually be recognized by their size, because the intake valves are larger to ensure the supply of fresh air. Electric motors Drive concepts based on electrical energy can have a central motor, but decentralized electric motors on each wheel or for the front and rear axles are also conceivable. The electric motor makes use of electromagnetic interaction and converts electrical energy into mechanical work using magnetic fields. The necessary output energy is carried in an accumulator or in the form of hydrogen. Hydrogen as a carrier medium has the advantage that it can be produced decentrally. The increasing use of electric motors in cars is a declared political goal in order to reduce dependence on oil and carbon dioxide emissions. However, the range and durability of the necessary batteries is currently still a major obstacle.when the piston returns from its bottom dead center to its top dead center. The mixture of fuel and air in the cylinder cannot escape and is compressed by the cylinder. Pressure and temperature rise. In diesel engines, the heat is enough for the mixture to ignite itself. Gasoline engines require an additional ignition system that causes the spark to jump to the spark plugs the moment the piston is close to its top dead center. The engine electronics determine the exact ignition point using numerous sensor data. Animation four-stroke engine 1st stroke: intake, 2nd stroke: compression/ignition, 3rd stroke: working, 4th stroke: exhaust (Image: UtzOnBike @wikimedia.org (CC BY-SA 3.0)) 3rd stroke: working The engine develops its power in the working stroke because when the valves are closed the burning mixture has nowhere to escape and ensures that the piston is pushed towards its bottom dead center. The explosive combustion produces pressures between 120 bar (gasoline engine) and 160 bar (diesel engine). When the piston has reached the bottom, the exhaust valves begin to open and the last stroke can begin. 4th stroke: exhaust When the exhaust valves are open, the piston moves upwards again, forcing the cooled but still very hot exhaust gas out of the cylinder. Shortly before top dead center, the intake valves begin to open while the exhaust valves are still closing. This valve overlap is intentional in order to gain as much time as possible for filling with new combustion air and starting the four-stroke cycle again. Intake and exhaust valves can usually be recognized by their size, as the intake valves are larger to ensure the supply of fresh air. Electric motors Drive concepts based on electrical energy can have a central motor, but decentralized electric motors on each wheel or for the front and rear axles are also conceivable. The electric motor makes use of electromagnetic interaction and converts electrical energy into mechanical work using magnetic fields. The necessary output energy is carried in an accumulator or in the form of hydrogen. Hydrogen as a carrier medium has the advantage that it can be produced decentrally. The increasing use of electric motors in cars is a declared political goal in order to reduce dependence on oil and carbon dioxide emissions. However, the range and durability of the necessary batteries are currently still a major obstacle.when the piston returns from its bottom dead center to its top dead center. The mixture of fuel and air in the cylinder cannot escape and is compressed by the cylinder. Pressure and temperature rise. In diesel engines, the heat is enough for the mixture to ignite itself. Gasoline engines require an additional ignition system that causes the spark to jump to the spark plugs the moment the piston is close to its top dead center. The engine electronics determine the exact ignition point using numerous sensor data. Animation four-stroke engine 1st stroke: intake, 2nd stroke: compression/ignition, 3rd stroke: working, 4th stroke: exhaust (Image: UtzOnBike @wikimedia.org (CC BY-SA 3.0)) 3rd stroke: working The engine develops its power in the working stroke because when the valves are closed the burning mixture has nowhere to escape and ensures that the piston is pushed towards its bottom dead center. The explosive combustion produces pressures between 120 bar (gasoline engine) and 160 bar (diesel engine). When the piston has reached the bottom, the exhaust valves begin to open and the last stroke can begin. 4th stroke: exhaust When the exhaust valves are open, the piston moves upwards again, forcing the cooled but still very hot exhaust gas out of the cylinder. Shortly before top dead center, the intake valves begin to open while the exhaust valves are still closing. This valve overlap is intentional in order to gain as much time as possible for filling with new combustion air and starting the four-stroke cycle again. Intake and exhaust valves can usually be recognized by their size, as the intake valves are larger to ensure the supply of fresh air. Electric motors Drive concepts based on electrical energy can have a central motor, but decentralized electric motors on each wheel or for the front and rear axles are also conceivable. The electric motor makes use of electromagnetic interaction and converts electrical energy into mechanical work using magnetic fields. The necessary output energy is carried in an accumulator or in the form of hydrogen. Hydrogen as a carrier medium has the advantage that it can be produced decentrally. The increasing use of electric motors in cars is a declared political goal in order to reduce dependence on oil and carbon dioxide emissions. However, the range and durability of the necessary batteries are currently still a major obstacle.which causes the spark to jump to the spark plugs at the moment when the piston is shortly before its top dead center. The engine electronics determine the exact ignition point using numerous sensor data. Animation four-stroke engine 1st stroke: intake, 2nd stroke: compression/ignition, 3rd stroke: work, 4th stroke: exhaust (Image: UtzOnBike @wikimedia.org (CC BY-SA 3.0)) 3rd stroke: work The engine develops its power in the work stroke because when the valves are closed the burning mixture has nowhere to escape and ensures that the piston is pushed towards its bottom dead center. The explosive combustion reaches pressures of between 120 bar (gasoline engine) and 160 bar (diesel engine). When the piston has reached the bottom, the exhaust valves begin to open and the last stroke can begin. 4th stroke: exhaust When the exhaust valves are open, the piston moves upwards again, pushing the cooled but still very hot exhaust gas out of the cylinder. Shortly before top dead center, the intake valves begin to open while the exhaust valves are still closing. This valve overlap is intentional in order to gain as much time as possible for filling with new combustion air and starting the four-stroke cycle again. Intake and exhaust valves can usually be recognized by their size, because the intake valves are larger to ensure the supply of fresh air. Electric motors Drive concepts based on electrical energy can have a central motor, but decentralized electric motors on each wheel or for the front and rear axles are also conceivable. The electric motor makes use of electromagnetic interaction and converts electrical energy into mechanical work using magnetic fields. The necessary output energy is carried in an accumulator or in the form of hydrogen. Hydrogen as a carrier medium has the advantage that it can be produced decentrally. The increasing use of electric motors in cars is a declared political goal in order to reduce dependence on oil and carbon dioxide emissions. However, the range and durability of the necessary batteries are currently still a major obstacle.which causes the spark to jump to the spark plugs at the moment when the piston is shortly before its top dead center. The engine electronics determine the exact ignition point using numerous sensor data. Animation four-stroke engine 1st stroke: intake, 2nd stroke: compression/ignition, 3rd stroke: work, 4th stroke: exhaust (Image: UtzOnBike @wikimedia.org (CC BY-SA 3.0)) 3rd stroke: work The engine develops its power in the work stroke because when the valves are closed the burning mixture has nowhere to escape and ensures that the piston is pushed towards its bottom dead center. The explosive combustion reaches pressures of between 120 bar (gasoline engine) and 160 bar (diesel engine). When the piston has reached the bottom, the exhaust valves begin to open and the last stroke can begin. 4th stroke: exhaust When the exhaust valves are open, the piston moves upwards again, pushing the cooled but still very hot exhaust gas out of the cylinder. Shortly before top dead center, the intake valves begin to open while the exhaust valves are still closing. This valve overlap is intentional in order to gain as much time as possible for filling with new combustion air and starting the four-stroke cycle again. Intake and exhaust valves can usually be recognized by their size, because the intake valves are larger to ensure the supply of fresh air. Electric motors Drive concepts based on electrical energy can have a central motor, but decentralized electric motors on each wheel or for the front and rear axles are also conceivable. The electric motor makes use of electromagnetic interaction and converts electrical energy into mechanical work using magnetic fields. The necessary output energy is carried in an accumulator or in the form of hydrogen. Hydrogen as a carrier medium has the advantage that it can be produced decentrally. The increasing use of electric motors in cars is a declared political goal in order to reduce dependence on oil and carbon dioxide emissions. However, the range and durability of the necessary batteries are currently still a major obstacle.When the piston has reached the bottom, the exhaust valves begin to open and the last stroke can begin. 4th stroke: exhaust When the exhaust valves are open, the piston moves upwards again, pushing the cooled but still very hot exhaust gas out of the cylinder. Shortly before top dead center, the intake valves begin to open while the exhaust valves are still closing. This valve overlap is intentional in order to gain as much time as possible for filling with new combustion air and starting the four-stroke cycle again. Intake and exhaust valves can usually be recognized by their size, as the intake valves are larger to ensure the supply of fresh air. Electric motors Drive concepts based on electrical energy can have a central motor, but decentralized electric motors on each wheel or for the front and rear axles are also conceivable. The electric motor makes use of electromagnetic interaction and converts electrical energy into mechanical work using magnetic fields. The necessary initial energy is carried in an accumulator or in the form of hydrogen. Hydrogen as a carrier medium has the advantage that it can be produced decentrally. The increasing use of electric motors in cars is a declared political goal in order to reduce dependence on oil and carbon dioxide emissions. However, the range and durability of the necessary batteries are currently still a major obstacle.When the piston has reached the bottom, the exhaust valves begin to open and the last stroke can begin. 4th stroke: exhaust When the exhaust valves are open, the piston moves upwards again, pushing the cooled but still very hot exhaust gas out of the cylinder. Shortly before top dead center, the intake valves begin to open while the exhaust valves are still closing. This valve overlap is intentional in order to gain as much time as possible for filling with new combustion air and starting the four-stroke cycle again. Intake and exhaust valves can usually be recognized by their size, as the intake valves are larger to ensure the supply of fresh air. Electric motors Drive concepts based on electrical energy can have a central motor, but decentralized electric motors on each wheel or for the front and rear axles are also conceivable. The electric motor makes use of electromagnetic interaction and converts electrical energy into mechanical work using magnetic fields. The necessary initial energy is carried in an accumulator or in the form of hydrogen. Hydrogen as a carrier medium has the advantage that it can be produced decentrally. The increasing use of electric motors in cars is a declared political goal in order to reduce dependence on oil and carbon dioxide emissions. However, the range and durability of the necessary batteries are currently still a major obstacle.However, the range and durability of the necessary batteries is currently still a major obstacle.However, the range and durability of the necessary batteries is currently still a major obstacle."
engine	Seals			"Seals play a particularly important role in a car engine, because operating materials, lubricants and hot gases from the combustion process must not leave the designated paths so that the unit lasts a long time and maintains its full performance. The seals used in an engine are correspondingly diverse. Depending on the specific location, they are made of either metal or rubber or consist of a combination of both materials. At kfzteile24 you will find seals and seal sets for the intake and exhaust manifold, for the injection system or the coolant and oil circuit. Of course, we also offer cylinder head gaskets, crankcase gaskets, valve cover and valve stem seals as well as shaft seals. Cylinder head gaskets are made of metal or metal grids with heat-resistant plastic. You can also buy valve stem seals cheaply online at kfzteile24. Changing engine seals Intervening in the engine is usually time-consuming and a job that is only possible with the appropriate specialist knowledge and suitable tools. The seals are always replaced when corresponding parts are replaced or when a defect in the seal requires replacement. Problems with one or more seals can usually only be detected by leaks, which manifest themselves in the form of escaping operating materials such as oil in the cooling water or fuel in the oil. The formation of puddles in the engine compartment or underneath the car and high consumption of operating materials such as coolant are also signs of defective seals. Loss of performance and poor cold start behavior can also be caused by defective engine seals. The requirements for the various seals in a car could hardly be more different. While turbocharger seals or exhaust manifold seals, for example, have to withstand enormous thermal loads of up to 900  Celsius to prevent exhaust gases from escaping, seals for the coolant circuit are subjected to loads of up to a maximum of 100  Celsius. But that doesn't make them any less important, because only when all the seals work together can the engine last a long time and the car remain operational. The individual seal is usually inexpensive, but changing the seal on the engine can quickly become expensive because the effort involved is high."
engine	Seals	Exhaust manifold gasket/sealing ring		"The exhaust manifold gasket, often just called the manifold gasket, is installed between the engine and the exhaust manifold and is designed to prevent hot, toxic gases from escaping. The exhaust manifold is the first element of a car's exhaust system. Its job is to guide the exhaust gases flowing from the engine into the exhaust. The shape that gives it its name is necessary because the exhaust usually runs along the underbody of the vehicle. Like all elements of the exhaust system, the exhaust manifold must be absolutely tight in order to minimize noise and keep toxic substances from the combustion process away from passengers and the environment. Due to the high pressures and thermal stress, high demands are placed on a manifold gasket. The exhaust gasket is therefore made of either metal or coated fabric."
engine	Seals	Intake manifold gasket		"The intake manifold gasket is one of many engine gaskets used in a modern car. Its job is to enable the intake manifold to be flanged to the engine in an airtight manner. Since the engine is supplied with combustion air and fuel via the intake manifold or intake tract and any leak would lead to the ingress of false air, the intake manifold gasket also protects the engine and the environment. After all, the mixture formation is regulated by means of lambda sensors and the control unit so that exhaust gas behavior and performance remain within a predetermined range. False air would disrupt this regulation. The control unit usually reacts to the implausible data from the lambda sensors by enriching the fuel mixture, i.e. more fuel is injected into each cylinder. This naturally increases fuel consumption and is bad for the environment and your wallet. The intake manifold gasket prevents the ingress of false air. Small holes and cracks can be sealed with hardening, permanently elastic silicone compound without removing parts. Replacing the intake manifold gasket A defective intake manifold gasket can be noticed by leaks and an uneven engine running. Whistling intake noises are also possible and the increased pollutant emissions are recorded as part of an emissions test. High fuel consumption can also be an indication. Replacing the gasket requires specialist knowledge and special tools, as many components usually have to be removed before the intake manifold can be removed. When installing the new intake manifold gasket, care must be taken to ensure that it is inserted correctly. The contact surfaces must also be thoroughly cleaned and deburred if necessary."
engine	Seals	Full gasket set		"Unfortunately, oil loss is a common problem in older cars, as the seals are subjected to a lot of wear and tear and over time they can no longer perform their function to the full. According to the T V, oil loss due to damaged seals in the engine or drive is the second most common defect in a general inspection for vehicles that are more than 10 years old, and therefore leads to the vehicle not being given an inspection sticker. Oil loss can usually be recognized by an oily engine compartment and oil stains under the vehicle, as well as high oil consumption. Full set of seals for a Fiat Panda Changing seals If you decide that it is worth changing the engine seals on your old car, then we recommend buying a full set of seals, as changing seals is usually very time-consuming and labor-intensive. If you are going to do the work, you should have all the seals ready and change them at the same time. This is the only way to avoid unpleasant surprises and to ensure that the oil loss is actually stopped. We recommend that you leave this work to a specialist workshop, as experience and special tools are required. However, you can buy the matching full gasket set from us at a reasonable price."
engine	Seals	Fuel sealing		"The term fuel seal refers to sealing rings and sealing sets for engine components that the fuel passes through on its way into the cylinder. In particular, this refers to sealing rings for the injection valves and the injection pump. The seals, shaft seals and sealing sets are usually made of rubber and must not become porous over time - after all, fuel is flammable and its vapors are harmful to health. Diesel in particular is very aggressive to plastics and hoses, which become soft and begin to swell. a seal for the injection pump from elring Changing the seal on the injection pump When working on the injection system, caution is required and specialist knowledge is required. However, if you feel confident enough to change the cover seal on an injection pump, for example, you can buy the right seal cheaply from kfzteile24. Make sure that you work extremely cleanly and always remove the old seal completely. No old seal parts must be left before inserting the new one. As with all seals, the correct fit determines whether the seal fulfills its function or not."
engine	Seals	Cooling water sealing		"Modern engines usually have liquid cooling. The coolant circulating through a pump, consisting of water, antifreeze and anti-corrosion additives, must not escape, however, in order to be able to reliably dissipate the heat generated during combustion in the engine. In addition to the corresponding cooling hoses and cooling lines, suitable seals also help to reduce coolant loss. Their job is to prevent the coolant from leaking at seams such as the water pump or the thermostat housing. However, even with ideal sealing, it is normal for the coolant to have to be topped up from time to time. A small amount of the water diffuses through the coolant hoses. a typical water pump seal Coolant seals prevent coolant from leaking Coolant protects against overheating Engine problems due to inadequate cooling are, according to the ADAC, one of the most common causes of breakdowns. Regularly checking the coolant level is therefore just as important as replacing defective seals. They are usually made of rubber and become porous over time. If you notice that the coolant level keeps dropping below the minimum within a short period of time, you should find the leak as soon as possible to avoid damage to the engine. However, puddles of water under the car in summer are generally no reason to panic, as they are usually condensation that settles on the evaporator of the air conditioning system and is drained outside."
engine	Seals	Crankcase gasket		"A crankcase gasket is generally understood to be the seal between the oil pan and the upper part of the crankcase. The crankcase is split in two so that the crankshaft and individual pistons can be easily replaced if necessary, and it gets its name because it supports the crankshaft. The bearing seats are located in the upper part of the crankcase and the bearing caps are attached from below with screws. Since the crankcase is colloquially equated with the engine block, at kfzteile24 you will not only find suitable seals for the connection between the upper and lower parts of the crankcase, i.e. the oil pan, but also complete gasket sets for the engine. The full gasket sets often also include a cylinder head gasket and a gasket for the water pump. Valve stem seals are also usually included. The oil pan gasket sits between the oil pan and the upper part of the crankcase. A crankcase gasket set contains many gaskets that are necessary for working on the engine. Changing the crankcase gasket The crankcase gasket should be changed when work is being done on the crankshaft or the engine is suffering from oil leaks. It prevents the engine oil required for lubrication and cooling from escaping at the connection point between the oil pan and the upper part of the crankcase. As with any seal, the sealing effect is determined by the accuracy of the fit and a clean contact surface. When changing the crankcase gasket, therefore, make sure to clean the relevant contact surfaces thoroughly. The work should only be carried out in a qualified specialist workshop anyway, and the costs can vary greatly from model to model and depend on how accessible the area is. Also note that when changing the crankcase gasket, the oil is also changed."
engine	Seals	Oil circuit sealing		"The importance of a high-quality oil circuit seal can easily be underestimated. Especially when you can buy the seals and seal sets cheaply, as you can at kfzteile24. However, since oil is essential as a lubricant and coolant in combustion engines, it must be ensured that there are no leaks anywhere in the oil circuit. So if the car is losing oil, you should hurry and seal the oil circuit. The oil pump, for example, is relatively often affected. A new seal prevents the oil from getting into the engine compartment. a seal for the oil pump What happens if the car loses oil? Too little oil is a risk, especially for the engine, because if lubrication is no longer sufficiently guaranteed, wear and tear will occur and the unit will soon fail. The thermal loads of a combustion engine are also tamed by the engine oil, which can absorb the heat and release it into the environment or the coolant. Leaking oil not only lacks the necessary function to perform, but can also affect other components in the engine compartment. In addition to the avoidable environmental impact, a car that leaks oil also represents a safety risk. The oil could ignite on hot engine parts or get onto the brakes, where it could have a negative impact on the braking effect. Oil can also leak between the oil pan and the upper crankcase. Leaking oil as an indication of a defective seal Since seals in the oil circuit are exposed to high thermal loads, they eventually become brittle despite modern manufacturing processes. Eventually the material gives way and leaks occur in the crankcase, the cylinder head or in the area of ??the oil pump. However, covers in the engine compartment often block the view of the components, so that only a consistently low oil level is a clear sign of leaky lines or defective seals. The oil must be drained to change the seals. When doing this work, make sure that no oil gets into the ground and thus into the groundwater. In our shop you will find seals for the oil pan and the oil filter or the oil filter housing. Of course, we also offer seals for the oil pump. Finally, you can buy seals for the oil cooler and the oil filler neck at kfzteile24."
engine	Seals	Oil circuit sealing		"The importance of a high-quality oil circuit seal can easily be underestimated. Especially when you can buy the seals and seal sets cheaply, as you can at kfzteile24. However, since oil is essential as a lubricant and coolant in combustion engines, it must be ensured that there are no leaks anywhere in the oil circuit. So if the car is losing oil, you should hurry and seal the oil circuit. The oil pump, for example, is relatively often affected. A new seal prevents the oil from getting into the engine compartment. a seal for the oil pump What happens if the car loses oil? Too little oil is a risk, especially for the engine, because if lubrication is no longer sufficiently guaranteed, wear and tear will occur and the unit will soon fail. The thermal loads of a combustion engine are also tamed by the engine oil, which can absorb the heat and release it into the environment or the coolant. Leaking oil not only lacks the necessary function to perform, but can also affect other components in the engine compartment. In addition to the avoidable environmental impact, a car that leaks oil also represents a safety risk. The oil could ignite on hot engine parts or get onto the brakes, where it could have a negative impact on the braking effect. Oil can also leak between the oil pan and the upper crankcase. Leaking oil as an indication of a defective seal Since seals in the oil circuit are exposed to high thermal loads, they eventually become brittle despite modern manufacturing processes. Eventually the material gives way and leaks occur in the crankcase, the cylinder head or in the area of ??the oil pump. However, covers in the engine compartment often block the view of the components, so that only a consistently low oil level is a clear sign of leaky lines or defective seals. The oil must be drained to change the seals. When doing this work, make sure that no oil gets into the ground and thus into the groundwater. In our shop you will find seals for the oil pan and the oil filter or the oil filter housing. Of course, we also offer seals for the oil pump. Finally, you can buy seals for the oil cooler and the oil filler neck at kfzteile24."
engine	Seals	Oil pan gasket		"A suitable oil pan gasket ensures that the engine oil can circulate within the engine without affecting the other components of the car or polluting the environment. Older vehicles often have to deal with leaky connections between the oil pan and the upper part of the crankcase. If your vehicle is affected, the only thing that helps is to seal it quickly, because the engine oil fulfills important functions. It ensures lubrication, ensures that heat is dissipated and in this way protects the engine from wear. You should also seal the oil pan to avoid possible safety risks, because the escaping oil could ignite on hot engine parts. It can also get onto the brake discs or brake pads and impair the braking effect there. A suitable oil pan gasket ensures that no oil can leak at the connection point to the upper part of the crankcase. Changing the oil pan gasket In order to be able to seal the oil pan reliably, all seals usually have to be replaced. To do this, the engine oil is first drained. The oil pan is then unscrewed from the crankcase. Depending on the vehicle model, this step can be very time-consuming and should generally be carried out by a specialist workshop. The old seal must be completely removed and both the contact surface of the oil pan and the upper part of the crankcase are thoroughly cleaned. The new seal is then carefully and precisely fitted and the engine is then reassembled. The oil drain plug seal should also be changed at this time to seal off all possible oil leaks. Finally, the engine is refilled with new oil."
engine	Seals	Timing case seal		"The timing case is the part of the engine that houses the connecting elements between the crankshaft and camshaft. In many cars, power is transmitted by a toothed belt, which enables precise transmission through force and form-fitting. Timing chains or spur gear drives are also used for camshaft control. Depending on the control concept of the respective manufacturer, the components involved run either dry or in an oil bath. An oiled timing drive reduces friction and wear, but also places greater demands on the seal. If the car loses oil, the cause must first be clarified. If the leak occurs in the timing case, the corresponding seal is replaced. a timing case seal for a BMWThe timing case seal seals the timing case against oil loss. Changing the timing case seal Changing a timing case seal should only be carried out by qualified personnel in a specialist workshop, because it is not only labor-intensive but also requires experience and special tools. Any error, e.g. when tightening the timing belt or timing chain, can lead to major engine damage. The drive, for example, must be firmly seated so that it cannot jump over, but at the same time must not stretch. Precise work is therefore of the utmost importance when changing a timing case gasket. The contact surface is of course cleaned thoroughly and any traces of the old timing case gasket are removed."
engine	Seals	Turbocharger seal		"A turbocharger seal prevents secondary air or intermediate air from disrupting the compression of the combustion air intended for the combustion chamber. It is generally inexpensive, but replacing it in the event of a defect involves some effort and should be carried out by a specialist workshop. The turbocharger basically consists of a turbine that is made to rotate by the exhaust gas flow. This movement is transferred to the compressor wheel in the engine's intake tract via a common shaft. This is mounted in front of the combustion chamber and supplies the engine with the oxygen it needs to burn the fuel. By compressing the air, more oxygen can be supplied and more fuel can be burned, which significantly increases engine performance. The turbocharger seal should be changed when the turbocharger is removed. The oil inlet and oil outlet of the charger are also sealed. Signs of a defective turbocharger seal Problems with the turbocharger are usually noticeable due to a noticeable loss of performance. This does not always have to be due to the turbocharger seal, as the wastegate could also be malfunctioning and directing the exhaust gas flow past the turbocharger. The air hoses on the compressor side to the intercooler may also be leaking. Finally, the guide vanes on a turbocharger with variable turbine geometry could also have become stiff due to soot. However, it does not matter what the specific defect may be in the individual case, as as soon as the turbocharger is removed, the turbocharger seal should always be replaced to rule it out as a possible source of error."
engine	Seals	Valve cover gasket		"The valve cover forms the upper end of an internal combustion engine and houses the actuating elements of the valve train. Depending on the manufacturer, these can also be sprockets for the camshaft. Mercedes-Benz engines, for example, are driven by timing chains, as are many units from BMW or some Audi engines. The job of the valve cover is to close the engine, prevent engine oil or combustion gases from escaping into the environment, and prevent air from entering the engine. Seal for the cylinder head cover of an Opel Corsa B A VW Golf III also needs a valve cover gasket. Changing the valve cover gasket if there is an oil leak The valve cover gasket seals the valve cover, which is also called the cylinder head cover or cylinder head cover, against the cylinder head. The gasket is usually U-shaped and is usually made of rubber or plastic. Cork gaskets or gaskets made of pressed materials were also common for a long time. The stress during operation can cause the gasket to harden and become porous, which is often initially noticeable by oil leaking out. If oil leaks from the valve cover while the engine is running, the corresponding valve cover gasket must be replaced promptly. Otherwise, the oil could get into the environment and even ignite on hot parts of the engine or exhaust system. The valve cover screws are also usually equipped with suitable gaskets, which are often included as part of a gasket set with the valve cover gasket."
engine	Seals	Valve stem seal		"The valve stem seal is located at the top of the valve guide and has the task of ensuring a sufficient lubricating film so that the valves can move smoothly. Due to the high temperatures, the exhaust valves in particular are subjected to extreme thermal stress and are usually manufactured as bimetal valves. If additional frictional heat were to occur, the valve would wear out much more quickly. At the same time, however, the valve stem seal must also seal the combustion chamber and prevent engine oil from penetrating the valve stem guide. Every valve requires a valve stem seal. The valve stem seal prevents oil from penetrating the valve guide. Changing the valve stem seal If the valve stem seal is not able to prevent oil from penetrating the cylinder, oil consumption will initially increase. The catalytic converter may also no longer be able to work at full capacity because the oil or burnt oil residues are deposited. Poor exhaust emissions and bluish exhaust smoke are the result. A corresponding message from the lambda sensor provides initial indications of a problem. If the problem is ignored or not recognized at first, a defective valve stem seal can also result in a loss of performance and high fuel consumption because the engine control system switches to emergency mode. You can recognize a defective valve stem seal by the carbon deposits on the valve stem. Valve stem seals are not only replaced when they are defective, but are usually replaced whenever work needs to be done on the camshaft, valve springs, valves, bucket tappets or rocker arms. This work requires experience and sensitivity and should only be carried out by a specialist. The main costs when replacing valve stem seals are therefore not caused by the seals themselves, but are based on the labor required."
engine	Seals	Shaft seal ring/set		"Shaft seals, also known as WDR or Wedi, are seals that seal the engine at the exit points of the crankshaft and camshaft. However, the typical shaft rotation presents a challenge for the seal, as it must reliably prevent oil from escaping from the inside of the engine. At the same time, it has the task of ensuring that no additional air is sucked into the engine, which could disrupt the mixture ratio. In addition, the shaft seal must also be stable enough not to wear out after a short time despite unavoidable friction on the sealing lip. Radial shaft seals, such as those required for sealing the crankshaft and camshaft, are also often referred to as Simmerrings after their inventor Walther Simmer. kfzteile24 is a multiple award-winning test winner kfzteile24 is a multiple award-winning test winner Structure of a shaft seal Shaft seals are usually made of rubber and metal. The metal gives the seal stability and a hose spring presses the rubber lip onto the rotating shaft. However, there are also diaphragm shaft seals available that have a sealing lip made of polytetrafluoroethylene, which is better known as Teflon. When installing a new shaft seal, care must be taken to ensure that the old shaft seal is completely removed. The new seal is then placed on the shaft and pressed into position. The specialist workshop uses special tools from the car manufacturer to do this. However, if you work carefully and evenly, you can usually also put the shaft seal into position with a rubber hammer."
engine	Seals	Cylinder head gasket		"The cylinder head gasket is an important component in the system of a vehicle's drive unit. It seals the cylinder head from the combustion chamber as well as from oil channels and cooling water lines. Modern diesel engines and gasoline engines with direct injection in particular place the highest demands on processing quality and accuracy of fit in order to avoid damage to the engine and to ensure a long service life of the drive unit. A cylinder head gasket is subjected to high levels of stress from thermal and mechanical factors, so great care and the use of the best materials are important in its manufacture. In principle, a cylinder head gasket is made from a metal grid or a carrier sheet that is inserted into a heat-resistant plastic mass. The most modern processes use metal layer steel gaskets, the surfaces of which are sealed with very thin elastomer layers. kfzteile24 offers a large selection of high-quality cylinder head gaskets. Requirements for a cylinder head gasket reliable sealing against gas, oil and coolant deformable and does not require retightening invariability under chemical influences long service life resistance to thermal stress"
engine	Crankcase			"In common parlance, the crankcase is also often referred to as the engine block and consists of the crankshaft bearing, the cylinders and the cylinder head. The main task of the crankcase is to support the crankshaft. Since the cylinder block and the upper section of the crankcase form a unit in liquid-cooled engines, it is also referred to as the cylinder crankcase or Crankcase for short. The combustion process takes place in the cylinder crankcase and the kinetic energy of the pistons is transferred to the crankshaft via the connecting rods and converted into a rotary motion. Due to the high thermal requirements and pressure loads, the crankcase, cylinder and cylinder head must be made of materials that are stiff and strong and have good thermal conductivity. The material must also have good sliding properties, low thermal expansion, high noise damping and good wear behavior. Cast iron is usually used, but light metals such as aluminum are also conceivable. Aluminum significantly reduces the mass of the unit and lowers fuel consumption. The light metal is also superior to cast iron in terms of fatigue strength and corrosion resistance. Shaft seals must meet high requirements. Oil separator from febi bilstein Numerous spare parts for the crankcase in stock The cylinder crankcase usually lasts the life of the car, but this does not apply to the seals. Although they are also made from the most modern materials, the extreme conditions within the engine block mean that oil can leak out. In our shop you can therefore buy suitable seal sets, sealing rings and seals of all kinds at reasonable prices. We also offer oil separators, oil scraper plates and hoses for crankcase ventilation. Housing covers and screw plugs round off the range."
engine	Crankcase	Crankcase		"In the crankcase, the crankshaft is set in rotation by the combustion process. During this process, the engine oil takes on several important functions. On the one hand, the oil lubricates the mechanical parts and thus prevents wear, and on the other hand, it absorbs heat energy. Since the heat is transported away from the engine, it can work for a long time without overheating, even at full power. To ensure that the oil and coolant circulating in the crankcase do not leak out and remain where they belong, the crankcase must be sealed accordingly. You can buy the appropriate seals and seal sets, as well as screw plugs or frost plugs, cheaply from kfzteile24. The seal set for a crankcase includes many different seals. Frost plugs are inconspicuous, but can be the cause of numerous problems. What are frost plugs? Frost plugs close the openings necessary for the casting of the crankcase, through which the quartz sand can be removed after hardening. They are called frost plugs because they are theoretically able to prevent the engine from cracking when the coolant freezes by deforming and eventually being squeezed out. It is of course better to always add enough antifreeze to the coolant. However, due to direct contact with the coolant, the frost plugs tend to corrode and become leaky. In such a case, the only solution is to replace them. Depending on the engine, this requires a lot of work and manual skill, so frost plugs should only be replaced by a specialist workshop."
engine	Crankcase	Cylinder liners/set		"A cylinder liner is inserted into the cylinder in order to achieve better friction properties in this highly stressed area. The iron or aluminum casting of the crankcase does not always meet the requirements for lubrication, wear and necessary cooling. A cylinder liner provides a solution, enables easier replacement depending on the design and, as a wet liner, also offers optimal cooling. Sealing the cylinder liner is therefore important, because the engine oil must not get into the coolant circuit. Like all seals, the sealing rings for the cylinder liners are rather inconspicuous but important. Wet, dry and cast-in cylinder liners Depending on the engine concept, manufacturer and requirements, cylinder liners are used either dry, wet or cast. Dry and cast-in liners offer a particularly high level of fit and are wear-resistant despite their low wall thickness, but can hardly be replaced. Wet cylinder liners, on the other hand, offer optimal cooling through direct contact with the coolant. They can also be replaced more easily if necessary, but must be sealed much better."
engine	Crank drive			"What function does the crank drive perform and which parts are necessary? The crank drive as a whole converts the oscillating linear movement of the pistons in an internal combustion engine into a rotary movement. The rotary movement is transmitted mechanically and finally reaches the wheels. The process begins with the ignition of the fuel-air mixture within a cylinder. The explosive chemical reaction causes the air to expand and thereby move the piston because it initially has nowhere to escape. This force is transferred to the crankshaft by means of connecting rods attached to the piston. Due to their geometric arrangement, the connecting rods act as push rods which, attached to the crank pins, describe a circular path around the axis of rotation of the crankshaft. The energy released by combustion is thus converted into torque. Damage and defects in the crank drive The crank drive is the heart of a car and is exposed to high forces. Even the smallest discrepancies can lead to catastrophic consequential damage, which can even lead to total engine failure. To prevent this kind of scenario, you should take problems and warning signs seriously and react quickly. Check regularly whether there is enough engine oil and keep to the maintenance intervals. Also change the oil filter with every oil change. Also look out for the following signs: problematic behavior when starting oil leaking from the engine area knocking noises from the engine increased engine vibrations If your car is struggling with these problems, visit a workshop as soon as possible. Reduced engine power is also a clear indication of a defect. The engine often no longer runs on all cylinders and the cause must be clarified. In any case, leave this work to a car specialist.
"
engine	Crank drive	Pistons		"Pistons are components that do extremely hard work in the engine and are exposed to enormous forces. Only sophisticated lubrication and precise manufacturing prevent the pistons, cylinders or cylinder liners from wearing out prematurely. Foreign bodies in the air that is drawn in must be separated by the air filter, otherwise they would act like sandpaper on the pistons and cylinder walls. If the lubrication fails, in the worst case scenario this can lead to a so-called ""piston seizure"", which usually means the engine fails completely. If an engine repair is still possible, you can buy high-quality pistons cheaply from kfzteile24. Pistons of a NissanImage: Andrew Napier @flickr.com (CC BY 2.0) various pistons with connecting rodImage: hmboo Electrician and Adventurer @flickr.com (CC BY-ND 2.0) Pistons are subjected to high loads High pressure and thermal loads within the combustion chamber are among the constant challenges facing a piston. Immense ignition forces are particularly common in diesel-powered combustion engines. Pressures of more than 250 bar are not uncommon. Temperatures of up to 450  C are normal on the side areas of the engine's combustion chamber. For these reasons, high-quality materials are used to manufacture engine pistons, which today include cast aluminum alloys and, in earlier years, cast iron. The piston must of course also withstand the inertia forces that result from constant acceleration and deceleration. Robust steel engine pistons as an innovative solution for cars Vehicle engineers have been working on the development of steel pistons for cars for some time now. These designs are primarily designed for diesel engines with a large volume. The robust steel pistons are already being used in commercial vehicles, as modern steel has a number of advantages. This technology has not yet been widely adopted in cars, but due to the fuel savings of around 3% compared to aluminum pistons, this is probably only a matter of time."
engine	Crank drive	Pistons	Piston ring set	"The extensive range of spare parts from kfzteile24 also includes piston rings, which can be divided into compression rings and oil scraper rings. Compressor rings perform two functions. Firstly, they seal the combustion chamber from the crankcase and secondly, they conduct the heat from the piston to the cooled cylinder. Oil scraper rings, on the other hand, as their name suggests, scrape excess oil from the inner wall of the cylinder and return it to the oil pan. Piston rings are elastic and create a contact pressure on the cylinder. In the first compressor ring, which is closest to the combustion chamber, this pressure can be ten times the original contact pressure due to the gas pressure. To prevent the compression ring from touching the cylinder, this rectangular ring is often ground. The resulting lubricating wedge separates the piston ring and the cylinder wall and ensures that little oil gets into the combustion chamber. Replace defective piston rings and ensure they are installed correctly Piston rings are usually made of high-quality cast iron or even high-alloy steel and are coated with additional protective layers that reduce wear and prevent the piston rings from seizing. If the piston rings do need to be replaced, make sure the ring cross-section and installation side are correct. Ring flanks marked ""Top"" should always be installed ""upwards"", i.e. towards the piston crown. Special ring pliers are required to replace a piston ring and certain tolerances must be observed in order to prevent the rings from jamming or ""pumping"" and to seal the cylinder correctly. You should therefore leave the replacement of piston rings to a specialist to avoid causing damage to your vehicle."
engine	Crank drive	crankshaft		"The job of the crankshaft is to convert the power of the connecting rods into a rotational force and thus generate torque from the linear piston movement. The torque is partly transmitted via the clutch and used to drive the wheels. The torque is also used to drive auxiliary units such as the oil pump or the generator and the camshaft. Alloyed steel or cast iron with spheroidal graphite can be used as materials, which must have high strength and good vibration damping properties. Although crankshafts differ in their shape due to the number of cylinders, the number of crankshaft bearings, the stroke size, the firing order and the cylinder arrangement, they all have the same structure of shaft journals, crank pins and crank webs. The shaft journals are on one axis and are connected to the crank pins by crank webs. The crank pins in turn serve to hold the connecting rod. Crankshafts are shaped by counterweights in such a way that they can rotate as vibration-free as possible despite high acceleration forces. The installation of a crankshaft should always be carried out by a specialist."
engine	Crank drive	crankshaft	Crankshaft bearing shell	"Structure and function of a crankshaft bearing or crankshaft bearing shell Crankshaft bearings absorb the forces of the crank drive and enable the crankshaft to rotate with little wear. They are usually manufactured as split plain bearings, in which one or more functional layers are applied to a round steel support shell. They also have an oil hole and possibly an annular groove to ensure lubrication and are often also provided with fixing lugs to make installation easier. Crankshaft bearings can be differentiated according to the number and type of functional layers: Dual-material bearings Triple-material bearings Sputter bearings Polymer bearings Dual-material bearings are the simplest version of a crankshaft bearing shell, in which only a thin sliding layer made of an aluminum alloy is rolled on. Triple-material bearings, on the other hand, also have an intermediate layer made of copper-tin alloy, which can absorb dirt particles to further minimize wear. So-called sputter bearings are used in areas subject to heavy loads and are used, for example, in turbocharged diesel engines. The layers are applied electromagnetically using physical vapor deposition coating, which results in high density and extremely fine distribution. The last group of crankshaft bearings are polymer bearings, which are used in engines with automatic start-stop systems. In their structure, these crankshaft bearing shells are similar to ternary bearings, but an additional resin layer is applied that contains solid lubricant particles. Polymer bearings are therefore very low-wear and have good emergency running properties even if there are problems with the oil supply. Crankshaft bearing shells are installed under tension so that they do not shift or twist and must have a bearing clearance specified by the manufacturer. This is the difference between the diameter of the bearing shell and the bearing journal of the crankshaft. This is important to ensure the flow of oil and thus sufficient lubrication."
engine	Crank drive	crankshaft	hub	"The crankshaft is a crucial component of an engine because it converts part of the energy released by the combustion process into a rotary motion with the corresponding speed and torque. The rotary motion must be as uniform as possible so that the subsequent components of the drive are not damaged. For this reason, a typical crankshaft has counterweights and the clutch with its heavy flywheel or flywheel does the rest. The flywheel is usually attached to the hub of the crankshaft, which is firmly connected to the shaft. Replacing the hub is usually only necessary if there is mechanical damage and involves a lot of effort. Since special tools are also required to lock the clutch, you should leave the replacement of the crankshaft hub to a qualified specialist workshop."
engine	Crank drive	Connecting rod		"Function of a connecting rod Connecting rods are also known as connecting rods, push rods or drive rods and form the connection between the piston and the crankshaft. Their function is to convert the linear movement of the piston together with the crankshaft into a circular movement. To do this, the piston pin is inserted through the small connecting rod eye (connecting rod head) and the large connecting rod eye (connecting rod foot) is screwed to the crankshaft. This screw connection tends to be a weak point in the connecting rod, so special expansion screws are used. To further increase the accuracy of the screw connection, connecting rods are often manufactured as individual parts with a fracture notch. The cover then fits like a glove, which ensures an exact fit on the crank pin of the crankshaft and guarantees the best possible power transmission. Ideally, the breakage of the connecting rod is hardly noticeable after assembly. Steel and powder metals (sintered metal) are often used as materials. In racing, connecting rods made of aluminum or titanium are also used, and even connecting rods made of cast iron can still be found in older engines. In tuning, the shape of the connecting rod must be taken into account in addition to the material used, as not only the pulling force of the connecting rod plays a role, but also its resistance to pressure. While the load on the connecting rod depends primarily on the material and the cross-section when pulling, the shape of the connecting rod is also relevant when pushing. Since the connecting rod could bend, H-shaped connecting rods are sometimes used in high-horsepower engines, which can withstand this load better than their single-braced counterparts at the same weight."
engine	Crank drive	Connecting rod	Connecting rod bolt/nut	"Function of connecting rod bolts and connecting rod nuts The connecting rod or connecting rod connects the crankshaft to the moving piston in a crank drive. This power transmission converts the linear movement of the piston into a circular movement of the crankshaft. To ensure that the connection holds, connecting rods are normally cracked, i.e. separated into connecting rod and connecting rod cap at a predetermined breaking point, and then reconnected with connecting rod bolts and connecting rod nuts. The joint is then barely visible on the bolted connecting rod. Connecting rod bolts and connecting rod nuts fix the connection and must in turn withstand the resulting compressive and tensile forces. For this reason, special expansion bolts are used that are very strong and do not overstretch or loosen. Make sure that the expansion bolt connections are carefully assembled in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications."
engine	Crank drive	Connecting rod	Connecting rod bolt/nut	"The radial shaft seals on the crankshaft ensure that no engine oil, which is needed for lubrication and cooling, can escape from the crankcase. So-called blow-by gases, which have passed from the combustion chamber past the piston rings into the crankcase, are also largely held back in order to be fed back into the combustion process via the crankcase ventilation. The radial shaft seals are usually made of rubber, with the sealing lip resting on the crankshaft under tension by a metal spring. The inevitable friction puts a lot of strain on the seals, also known as shaft seals, and they must be replaced occasionally. Radial shaft seals are designed to prevent oil from escaping from the crankshaft. Changing the shaft seals on the crankshaft Even a layperson can recognize leaky shaft seals by the oil leaking out, which contaminates the engine compartment. Constant oil loss can manifest itself in high engine temperatures and is usually indicated by a corresponding warning light. Unfortunately, changing the crankshaft seals is anything but trivial and requires not only time and skill, but also a lot of experience. Therefore, leave the replacement of the radial shaft seals to a specialist workshop. This way you can be sure that the new seal is installed correctly and the old shaft seal is completely removed."
engine	Air supply			"Every car, whether with or without a turbocharger, needs a trouble-free and constant air supply for a flawless, efficient and clean combustion process. The car and the air supply: The technology Depending on the load and the displacement, a car takes in between 200 and 500 m  of air per hour. Since the air is more or less contaminated with dust and dirt particles depending on the environment, weather, time of year and the condition of the road surface, every car has what is known as an air filter. This ensures that no foreign bodies get into the combustion chamber. Otherwise they would act like sandpaper, so that the already heavily stressed engine parts would sooner or later be damaged. The wear-reducing effect of the air filter is complemented by a reduction in noise. Air filters are a central component of the air supply. However, these positive properties are generally at the expense of performance, because due to their design, an air filter always hinders the air supply. In addition to a large dust absorption capacity and high filtration performance, a high-quality air filter is characterized by the fact that it restricts the performance of the engine as little as possible. Modern air filters are designed in such a way that an annual change or a replacement every 20,000-50,000 kilometers is usually sufficient. Our professional mechanics demonstrate how to do this. Efficient combustion thanks to a good air supply The correct air supply is an important control variable so that the fuel in a combustion engine can be burned as efficiently and thus with as few pollutants as possible. In addition to the air filter, all other components involved must therefore also function flawlessly. Hoses and lines must not show any damage and control using lambda sensors is also necessary to optimize the mixture formation. Turbochargers also ensure that performance is not compromised. Air supply: Pay attention to the air filter replacement interval! The air filter of a car is usually replaced during the annual inspection. If there is a higher proportion of dust in the air, the change should be made earlier. A worn filter can be recognized by the clear dust deposits. Simply brushing or rinsing off the so-called filter cake is not recommended for replacement filters, as this will damage the structure of the filter. Instead, the new filter is simply inserted into the air filter box provided, making sure that the sealing lip is correctly positioned."
engine	Air supply	Intake manifold/intake pipe		"The intake manifold, also known as the intake manifold or intake bridge, is a connecting piece between the engine and the injection system or carburetor. The intake manifold, which used to be made of cast iron, is now often made of aluminum or even plastic for weight reasons. Intake manifold preheaters are sometimes used in gasoline engines. These electrical heating rods, sometimes called heating rods, preheat the fuel-air mixture to enable faster regulation of the exhaust gases during the cold start phase. A suction pipe for the air supply What is the function of the intake manifold? A combustion engine needs air to convert chemical energy into thermal energy and movement. In order to take this simple law into account, designers have to deal with the question of how the air gets into a car's engine. Based on these considerations, numerous components and optimizations have been developed over time. Air filters clean the combustion air to reduce wear. Turbochargers compress the combustion air and, together with intercoolers, increase the volume of oxygen available to the engine. However, none of these components work properly if pipes, hoses or lines are leaking. An intake manifold for the air supply is one such inconspicuous part that represents a simple connection in the vehicle's intake tract and requires little maintenance."
engine	Air supply	Recharge		"Supercharging of engines means the additional supply of air for the combustion process, as this increases the efficiency of the engine. By compressing the air, potentially more oxygen per unit volume can be fed into the combustion chamber. During this process, however, the charge air heats up. This heating counteracts the desired effect, so that the air, usually compressed by a turbocharger, is still passed through an intercooler. Schematic representation of an intercooler Function of the intercooler The intercooler increases the efficiency and performance of the engine. The installation of intercoolers is not only recommended for engine tuning of powerful cars or racing cars. The intercooler is also a popular tool for downsizing car engines, as the charger can reduce fuel consumption without changing the performance. Due to these advantages, intercoolers are usually already installed as standard. There are currently two types of intercoolers on the market. While some intercoolers are based on water cooling, others work with pure air cooling. A combination of both systems is also conceivable for everyday use, but is too impractical and expensive. Water-cooled intercooler Water-cooled intercoolers are smaller, but in contrast to air-cooled intercoolers, their construction is much more complex. The water-cooled intercooler relies on its own coolant circuit consisting of a pump, heat exchanger and cooler to function. This type of intercooler has the advantage of being small, as the heat exchange between air and water is much better than with pure air coolers. Air-cooled intercooler After the charge air has been compressed and heated by the compressor wheel of the turbocharger, in an air-cooled intercooler it is passed through a large number of thin channels around which air flows. This causes the charge air to quickly lose temperature, which leads to an increase in oxygen density. How much the O2 density increases depends on the arrangement and shape of the fins of the intercooler."
engine	Air supply	Recharge	Intercooler	"Function and structure of an intercooler Intercoolers are installed in the intake tract of petrol or diesel engines, which compress the supplied combustion air by means of turbocharging. The aim of this compression process using a turbocharger or compressor is to provide the engine with more air for combustion and thus increase efficiency and performance. However, the compression of the charge air is accompanied by an increase in temperature. Temperatures between 100 and 200 degrees Celsius are reached, which reduces the density of the oxygen molecules in the air. In order to take this physical law into account and achieve the desired effect, the temperature of the charge air must be reduced by an intercooler after compression. This also prevents the so-called ""knocking"" of petrol turbo engines, in which high temperatures lead to uncontrolled premature ignition of the fuel-air mixture. In the worst case, this could otherwise lead to engine damage. Air-cooled and water-cooled intercoolers In practice, two different types of intercoolers with different advantages and disadvantages have become established. With air-cooled intercoolers, the hot intake air is guided through numerous channels after the compressor. The intake air gives off heat due to the large surface area of ??the intercooler, which is achieved by fine fins, and the oxygen density increases. The shape and arrangement of the fins also determine how high the unavoidable pressure loss of the intake air within the intercooler is. However, the cooling effect also ensures that the volume of the intake air decreases and more fuel can be injected. The increase in performance achieved through cooling is therefore significantly greater than the disadvantage of the pressure loss. Intercoolers increase efficiency Water-cooled intercoolers are usually much smaller than their air-cooled counterparts. However, they require more components and therefore tend to be more vulnerable. A separate coolant circuit with cooler, heat exchanger and pump is required. They are usually used when there is little space available under the bonnet. In addition, water-cooled intercoolers usually improve responsiveness and counteract ""turbo lag"". However, the additional water pump means that the system consumes more power overall, so the efficiency is around 10 percent lower than with air-cooled intercoolers."
engine	Air supply	Recharge	Charge air control	"Charge air control, also known as boost pressure control, is essential because the higher the engine speed, the faster the turbine wheel of the turbocharger rotates. This in turn leads to a correspondingly high speed of the turbocharger shaft and the connected compressor wheel. The boost pressure must be regulated so that the pressure does not become too high and the mechanical tolerances of the turbocharger are not exceeded. A turbocharger without boost pressure control would destroy itself after a short time due to the self-reinforcing system. On the other hand, charge air control should of course also ensure that the positive effects of charging are felt as quickly and without delay as possible and that a so-called ""turbo lag"" does not occur. a boost pressure control valve from Pierburg What options are there for boost pressure control? Boost pressure control systems are all mechanical-pneumatic and electronic solutions. Electronic boost pressure control Electronic boost pressure control ensures the perfect boost pressure. The corresponding control unit determines the optimal value based on measured variables such as boost pressure, knock tendency, ambient pressure, speed or temperature and closes or opens the boost pressure control valve. Electronic charge air control is fast and guarantees high efficiency. Mechanical-pneumatic charge pressure control As soon as the charge pressure becomes too high, the charge pressure control valve opens with the help of a spring. The exhaust gases are guided past the turbine wheel of the turbocharger into the exhaust via the so-called bypass line. The bypass power required for this is often achieved by a simple bypass flap. Diverter valves are also used to regulate charge air. What technical solutions are there? The simplest form of charge pressure control is the so-called bleed valve. Compressed air is released via a pressure relief valve located on the side of the compressor. Today, such a pressure relief valve can be found in most series engines. It serves as a so-called safety valve that kicks in if the other components fail. Another option for charge pressure control is the so-called wastgate (bypass valve). This valve is placed directly in the exhaust gas flow. As soon as the set charge pressure is reached, the valve opens. The exhaust gases are then passed directly into the exhaust. The exhaust gases are deliberately directed past the turbine to prevent the turbine speed from increasing. The disadvantage of this boost pressure control solution is that both the actuators and the bypass valve are constantly exposed to the hot exhaust gas flow."
engine	Air supply	Recharge	Charge air hose	"The engine suddenly no longer delivers the usual performance? The cause could be a loose or damaged air hose, which prevents the charge air from being compressed, for example. The drop in pressure means that less oxygen gets into the combustion chamber and the fuel cannot be completely burned. The result is a significant loss of performance, which is particularly noticeable on the motorway. Fortunately, a defective air hose is usually relatively easy to replace and usually does not pose a danger to the engine. However, the sensitive balance between air and fuel is disturbed, which also worsens the exhaust emissions. kfzteile24 is a multiple award-winning test winner kfzteile24 is a multiple award-winning test winner Replacing a defective charge air hose A leaky charge air hose is usually noticeable through low engine performance and poor exhaust emissions. The on-board diagnostics will also sound the alarm using a warning light. Replacing a defective air hose is usually straightforward, but depending on the vehicle, it may also involve removing other components. Defective air hoses should always be replaced and not patched up. Plastic and rubber are usually used as materials because the hose needs to be both stable and have a certain degree of flexibility."
engine	Air supply	Recharge	Charger/parts	"In addition to fuel, a combustion engine also needs air. After all, an exothermic redox reaction must take place, i.e. the oxygen must react with the fuel to release energy. The more air and therefore oxygen available, the more fuel can be burned. This simple principle is used in engine charging to increase either the performance or the efficiency of an engine. Engine charging is therefore the supply of more combustion air through increased pressure. However, the increase in performance achieved per working cycle is accompanied by greater thermal and mechanical loads, so that the process has design limits. The increase in pressure also increases the temperature of the charge air, which reduces the oxygen content per volume and counteracts the desired effect. Compressed charge air is therefore usually passed through an intercooler before it goes on to the combustion chamber. Exhaust turbocharger for a Smart charger for Skoda, VW and Audi Compressor compared to turbocharger The compression of the charge air can be done using different processes, with engines with a compressor and turbocharger in the exhaust system being the most common in cars. The compressor is directly mechanically coupled to the engine via a toothed belt, gears, timing chains or V-ribbed belts and can thus generate excess pressure even at low speeds. The increase in performance is also available without ""turbo lag"". However, the compressor draws useful power from the engine, while an exhaust turbocharger uses the otherwise unused excess pressure of the exhaust gases. As a rule, the overall efficiency of a turbocharger is therefore higher than that of a compressor, although both systems produce significantly more power than purely naturally aspirated engines."
engine	Air supply	Recharge	Charger seal	"Seals play an important role in many areas of a car. An exhaust turbocharger also needs suitable charger seals to ensure that no exhaust gas can escape from the exhaust system and that no oil, which is needed for lubrication and cooling, escapes. The seals must be able to withstand the high thermal loads, because the exhaust gases are very hot after leaving the combustion chamber. A charger seal is usually made of metal. Rubber-metal seals can also be used. Seal of a turbocharger Changing the charger seal The charger seal must always be changed when exhaust gases escape from the exhaust system. This is not only harmful to the environment but also potentially dangerous. The toxic gas mixture could penetrate into the passenger compartment and affect the car's occupants. On the other hand, the escaping gas is still hot and could cause damage outside the exhaust system. The charger seal is also changed when the turbocharger itself needs to be repaired or replaced. This work usually requires experience and special tools and should only be carried out by a qualified workshop."
engine	Air supply	Throttle valve /- sensor		"The position of the throttle valve can be used to regulate the performance of an engine. It is usually located in the intake pipe between the air filter and intake manifold in a separate housing known as a throttle valve body. The position of the throttle valve in the pipe cross-section determines how much air is sucked in by the descending piston using negative pressure. The amount of fuel that can be injected is in turn derived from the amount of air available. This is known as quantitative mixture regulation. The control unit usually aims for a stoichiometric mixture ratio of lambda=1, in which just as much fuel is supplied as can be completely burned by the available oxygen. A special form of throttle valve is the individual throttle, where the amount of air can be determined separately for each cylinder. Due to the associated design effort, these throttle valves are only used in racing engines and particularly sporty production vehicles. Throttle valve from Bosch for a Peugeot 206 CC Position of the throttle valve The throttle valve is ultimately just a circular piece of metal, but its position has a significant impact on the behavior of the engine. If too little air gets into the combustion chamber, the engine will stutter and jerk. In the worst case, the engine may even stall. To prevent this from happening, the position of the throttle valve in modern vehicles is determined directly by the control unit. This regulates the throttle valve via the electric motor of the control valve actuator, which is often also referred to as the idle speed controller or idle control valve, so that the actual speed of the engine corresponds to the target value in the respective driving situation. Depending on the system, an idle controller may also be used, which represents an air duct around the closed throttle valve. The air flow in the duct can be regulated using pulse-width modulated signals from the control unit. When the air conditioning is switched on or during a cold start, for example, a higher speed than usual is necessary when idling. Conversely, the whole technology also means that the position of the accelerator pedal has no direct influence on the position of the throttle valve, but is simply interpreted by the control unit. The existing systems then implement this."
engine	Air supply	Throttle valve /- sensor	Throttle body	"The throttle body is the housing of the throttle valve, which is installed in the intake tract of a vehicle and is responsible for mixture preparation. The throttle body can be imagined as a pipe whose cross-section can be changed by the position of the throttle valve, as well as the brackets and control elements attached to it. In modern cars, throttle cables are no longer used. Instead, the throttle valve is moved to the desired position using an electric motor. By changing the cross-section, the amount of air that enters the cylinders through the piston stroke can be determined, which in turn influences the amount of fuel injected and determines the power. For this reason, the process is also called quantitative mixture regulation. The engine control unit aims, if possible, at the exact ratio of air to fuel so that all of the fuel is burned. Throttle body for a Peugeot 206 Throttle body in contrast to the throttle valve While the throttle valve is basically just the small metal sheet that regulates the cross-section of the throttle body and thus the amount of air to the intake manifold, the throttle body is the entire component including the servomotor, actuator and idle speed regulator or idle control valve. Nevertheless, the throttle valve usually refers to the throttle body, which should always be checked if the engine tends to stutter or jerk. When buying, make sure you choose the right vehicle and leave the replacement to a workshop."
engine	Air supply	Throttle cable/rod		"What is the function of the throttle cable or throttle linkage? A throttle cable or throttle linkage establishes the connection between the driver and the engine. The driver's commands are transmitted mechanically from the accelerator pedal to the throttle valves (in petrol engines) or to the injection pump (in diesel engines). Due to this constant stress, throttle cables and throttle linkages can wear out. Corrosion or mechanical defects can also make replacement necessary. A defective throttle cable can usually be recognized by the fact that the car no longer reacts in the usual way when accelerating and the speed no longer correlates correctly with the pedal position. An indication of a defective throttle linkage can be an accelerator pedal that is difficult to press. Modern materials for the throttle cable A throttle cable must be flexible and stable at the same time and is therefore made up of several layers. The central component is the so-called pull cable, which is usually made of steel wire (spring steel or aluminum alloy). The pull cable is surrounded by a flexible or rigid casing. These are materials such as polyethylene, Teflon or polyoxymethylene. The layer visible on the outside is often made of soft, flexible polyvinyl chloride. In some products, the hose-like casing is replaced by a stable covering made of corrosion-resistant steel. Optimal coordination of all material layers and careful processing guarantee a long service life for the throttle cable."
engine	Air supply	Air filter/air filter box		"The car's combustion engine sucks in air via the intake hose, which is then fed into the combustion chamber. How much air depends on the engine's displacement. Before the air reaches the combustion chamber, however, it must pass through the air filter. Its job is to prevent pollen, dust or soot particles from entering. In this way, the air filter protects the engine from all kinds of dirt and significantly reduces wear. When it comes to air filters, you can also choose between branded products and inexpensive alternatives. At kfzteile24, you can buy suitable air filters cheaply online. The air filter and its function An average car engine needs between 200 and 500 m  of air within an hour. This is sucked in, but is always contaminated with dust and dirt particles. How much depends on various factors, such as the time of year, the weather, the environment and the condition of the road. In addition, the air pollution in inner cities is significantly higher than in the country. The small contaminants leave clear marks in the engine and act like sandpaper. Air filters are used to prevent mechanical parts from wearing out so quickly, which trap dirt. In addition to its primary function, the air filter is also important for the engine's acoustics. It is usually located in a corresponding air filter box and should be checked and changed regularly. Replacement is usually carried out during the annual inspection. Please note that replacement filters cannot be cleaned by tapping them or spraying them with compressed air. The sensitive pores of the filter elements are destroyed by the mechanical treatment and can then only perform their function to a limited extent.
"
engine	Air supply	Regulation/Control		"The idle control valve, also called idle adjuster or idle controller, can be found in every car and ensures that the engine speed does not fall below a minimum, known as idling. Idling is also called idle - the name comes from the fact that the driver does not have to actively accelerate to idle. In this way, the idle control valve prevents the engine from simply turning off. While older car models were controlled mechanically, today's valves function electronically. Electronic idle control valves work in combination with the crankshaft sensor, which transmits the respective speeds to the control unit. The idle speed is then adjusted via the electrical actuator. Due to the many extras in the car, such as electric heaters, air conditioning systems, etc. and the resulting greatly varying performance requirements, idle control valves can be found in cars with both petrol and diesel engines. The idle control valve ensures that the engine does not turn off, even when stationary. The idle control valve ensures that the engine does not turn off, even when stationary. Symptoms of a defective idle control valve If an idle control valve is defective, you can often tell because the engine speed is either higher or lower than usual. Clearly noticeable speed fluctuations when connecting consumers are also an indication of a defective idle control. Finally, so-called chainsawing can occur, ie the engine revving up and down. If the engine stops when stationary, it is time to take a closer look at the idle control and replace it if necessary. Mechanical causes are often caused by corrosion or dirt, ie the idle control does not move smoothly enough."
engine	Air supply	Hoses/pipes		"Oxygen is needed for fuel combustion. Its proportion is optimized via the fuel-air mixture by the control unit of modern vehicles with regard to numerous target variables (performance, environmental compatibility and efficiency). Due to the complex structure of this system, the importance of simple hoses is often overlooked. They must be robust and leak-proof, withstand temperature fluctuations and be as flexible as possible to lay. The air drawn in is then transported via air hoses, for example from the air filter to the engine. You can buy an air hose from the brand manufacturer febi bilstein online in the shop at kfzteile24 or you can opt for the cheaper alternative. Of course, we regularly subject the goods to quality control to ensure that only flawless hoses leave our premises."
engine	Air supply	Control flap		"A combustion engine can only work if there is enough oxygen available to oxidize the fuel, as this is an exothermic redox reaction. The energy released in the form of heat and light is partly transferred to the crankshaft via the pistons and connecting rods and drives the car. The air supply is therefore of crucial importance and is used to control the engine. The less air that passes through the control flap and gets into the cylinders, the less fuel can be burned. The performance drops. However, to ensure that the engine does not stall at a red light or when the air conditioning is switched on, an idle control is necessary that simultaneously optimizes consumption. Control flap for Audi A4 Avant adapter cable from febi bilstein Structure and function of the control flap The engine control is able to influence the mixture formation in the cylinders via the control flap. Sensor data such as the air quantity or air mass, the temperature, the speed, the accelerator pedal position and the lambda value are used for this. A servomotor then moves the control flap in its housing so that the engine speed that suits the driving situation is achieved. By narrowing the pipe cross-section, the engine's performance can be throttled, which is why the component is often also called a throttle valve. The fuel can be injected both before and after the throttle valve, although downstream multi-point injection for each cylinder is now more commonly used. Changing the control flap You can recognize a defective control flap by the engine running unevenly or stuttering. In some cases, the engine can suddenly stop. If you notice corresponding symptoms in your car, it is advisable to have the control flap checked. A specialist workshop can rule out other causes of the fault and replace the part. Depending on the structure of the engine, changing the control flap can be a complex procedure, so you will be happy to be able to buy at least the control flap cheaply from kfzteile24."
engine	Engine mount			"The engine mount of a car has the task of supporting the engine. The engine mounts used must therefore be able to bear the weight. At the same time, they dampen vibrations between the body and the engine and support the unit in order to absorb any tensile and thrust forces that occur. The engine mount is therefore of crucial importance with regard to driving comfort, as vibrations are prevented and noise is reduced. It also ensures that systems connected to the engine are not damaged. Finally, the engine mount helps to ensure that the torque generated by the combustion process can be transmitted as efficiently as possible and is therefore available for propulsion and also for driving the auxiliary units. Engine mounts are usually made of rubber and metal. Detecting a defect in the engine mount A defective engine mount is usually understood to mean defective engine mounts that wear out due to constant stress and additional environmental influences. The bearings made of rubber and metal can have cracks and breaks caused by corrosion and overloading. As a driver, you usually notice defective engine mounts by unusual noises and clearly noticeable vibrations. These can either affect the entire body or occur in the steering wheel or gear lever. Depending on the defect, vibrations do not occur in all driving situations, but should not be ignored under any circumstances. Banging noises when switching the engine on or off are also a clear indication of damage to the engine mounts. Defective engine mounts are also often the cause of uneven engine running."
engine	Engine mount	Engine damper		"Engine dampers are part of the engine suspension and have the task of absorbing impacts and jerky movements of the engine. They are also known as stop buffers and absorb energy that is caused by shear and tensile loads within the engine and sets it in motion. They are usually made of rubber, as the material returns to its original state when deformed. The absorbed energy is converted into heat. Depending on the engine, stop buffers can be exposed to high loads and can become brittle or even cracked over time due to the effects of the weather. If an engine damper is defective, sudden noises usually occur when the engine is started, when accelerating or when the unit is switched off. In this case, the broken engine damper should be replaced as quickly as possible to avoid subsequent damage. Buy engine dampers cheaply at kfzteile24. Changing the engine damper The engine damper should be changed by an experienced specialist workshop, as the procedure can be a complex matter depending on the manufacturer and model. If the engine has to be removed, it is advisable to check all engine mounts and bump stops and replace them if necessary. Hoses and systems adjacent to the engine should also be checked to ensure that the defective bump stop has not caused any further problems."
engine	Engine mount	Engine mount		"An engine mount is usually a sturdy element made of rubber and/or metal that has the task of supporting the engine of a car or restricting its mobility. It is therefore just another name for an engine mount. The engine mount absorbs the weight of the engine and dampens the vibrations between the unit and the body. This prevents noise and vibrations, increases driving comfort and reduces wear. Engine mounts are part of the engine suspension. Replacing a defective engine mount Engine mounts are usually very stable, but the rubber responsible for damping can become porous or even cracked over time. The elasticity is lost and the engine sags when there are strong changes in pull and thrust. This is often noticeable in clearly audible noises that occur particularly when starting, accelerating and switching off. Vibrations in the steering wheel, gear lever or pedal area are also not uncommon. Have such damage checked immediately by a specialist workshop to avoid risking expensive consequential damage. You should also leave the replacement of an engine mount to a car professional, as the change involves some effort depending on the model."
engine	Engine mount	Engine mounting		"In the engine mounts section you will not only find stop buffers and engine mounts, but also bearings for the manual transmission or the axle body, because depending on the manufacturer and model, the engine and the components involved in a car are connected to the body in different ways. The most important are of course the engine mounts mentioned, which are usually made as rubber-metal mounts, so-called silent blocks. Hydro mounts cover a larger frequency range and work with a hydraulic fluid. Engine mounts support the engine and dampen vibrations. Silentbloc engine mounts This form of engine mount is relatively simple and usually consists of a metal part coated with rubber. The metal gives the mount stability and helps to absorb the weight of the engine, while the rubber has a dampening effect due to its elasticity. The engine is decoupled from the body so that vibrations cannot spread and noise is also minimized. Hydro mounts Similar to silentbloc engine mounts, hydro mounts also have the task of dampening oscillations and minimizing vibrations. However, they offer the advantage that they can absorb different frequencies. This can be achieved using a solenoid valve that is opened and closed by a control unit. When idling, the valve is open and the rubber-metal housing absorbs the vibrations. The hydraulic fluid inside the hydro mount forces air through the valve. If the solenoid valve is closed while driving, the natural frequency of the hydro mount changes because the fluid is now forced through a jet channel inside. This allows the engine to run even more smoothly in all driving situations. Detecting and replacing defective engine mounts Broken engine mounts make themselves known through unusual noises and vibrations. The rubber is often worn out because it becomes brittle due to constant stress and environmental influences and can eventually even tear. Hydro mounts can also leak and lose hydraulic fluid. The engine vibrations are then no longer decoupled as desired and are instead passed on to the body. If the phenomenon is left untreated, banging noises can soon become noticeable when starting, accelerating or switching off. They are caused by the fact that the engine can move too far and practically hits the mounting point of the bracket. Even if replacing the engine mounts is not usually child's play, you should replace defective bearings promptly. This way you can avoid costly consequential damage. Since the engine often has to be removed for the replacement, the work should be carried out by a specialist workshop."
engine	Engine electrics			"In order to meet increasingly strict emissions standards and at the same time increase performance and comfort, extensive engine electronics are necessary. Sensors such as lambda sensors or air mass meters are used as control variables for mixture formation, while temperature and pressure sensors provide data on the status of individual systems. All of this information is forwarded to the relevant control units and interpreted there. The corresponding control unit processes the input and regulates the associated processes so that the actual combustion can take place as efficiently and cleanly as possible. As a result, only functioning engine electronics can ensure that the vehicle is environmentally friendly and fuel-efficient. At kfzteile24 you can also buy coolant sensors cheaply online. a lambda sensor from Bosch The task of sensors A sensor is a technical component that measures physical and/or chemical properties. They are used in many places in a vehicle and have impressive names such as knock sensor, boost pressure sensor or throttle valve sensor. Lambda sensors and air mass meters are also sensors, as are temperature sensors for the engine oil or coolant. The speed of the crankshaft is determined in the same way as the position of the camshaft, and even the accelerator pedal position is constantly monitored. A so-called bus system is necessary so that all components can communicate with each other. This data line enables several systems to use a common transmission path. Without a bus system and only a direct transmission path, the necessary cabling in the car would assume gigantic proportions. The CAN bus (Controller Area Network) developed by Bosch and Intel solves the problem and offers two data highways of different speeds. The sensors and control units of the engine and safety-relevant systems such as ESP or ABS can communicate with each other at up to a theoretical 1 Mbit/s, while signals from the window lifters or central locking are not time-critical and are transmitted at just 125 kbit/s. The task of the control units The control units of a car interpret the incoming data volume. They register deviations from target values ??and regulate the processes using manipulated variables. The control unit also detects errors and reports these to the driver, depending on their severity, using appropriate indicator lights. If the control unit detects implausible data, it can, in extreme situations, shut down the vehicle completely in order to avoid possible damage or to avoid endangering driving safety. How the control unit reacts in individual cases is determined by the manufacturer, who must find an optimal balance for operational safety and comfort in countless and complex series of tests. A car that constantly reports errors and refuses to drive,is perceived by the customer as being prone to errors. This process is not completed with the registration and sale of the car, as driver feedback can also be taken into account through updates to control units."
engine	Engine control			"A modern combustion engine is a complex machine in which numerous components must work in perfect harmony with one another. The camshaft plays a central role in the so-called valve control. The camshaft controls the opening and closing of the cylinders' intake and exhaust valves via tappets, rocker arms or rocker arms. It is driven by the crankshaft with a ratio of 2:1 in four-stroke engines. In principle, the camshaft rotates at half the speed of the crankshaft. Power is usually transmitted by toothed belts, but timing chains, spur gears or vertical shafts are also used depending on the vehicle model. Gears are used in radial engines. Correct valve control is a prerequisite for the engine to work optimally and any error can quickly lead to engine damage due to the high temperatures and enormous pressures within the cylinders. We therefore recommend that you have work on parts of the valve control carried out by a professional workshop."
engine	Engine control	Tilt/rocker lever		"Depending on the design of the engine, rocker arms and finger followers are required to operate the valves whenever the cams of the camshaft do not exert their force directly on the bucket tappets. These are basically simple levers that are used to transmit force as part of the engine control. Finger followers a finger follower from febi bilstein Finger followers are also called rocker arms because they are single-armed levers that are mounted so that one side can rotate. The other side of the lever arm rests on the bucket tappet and presses the valve spring downwards as the cam lifts. The inlet or exhaust valve opens. This creates friction between the cam and the finger follower. A pivoting cam roller at the contact point can significantly reduce the problem and thus prevent wear on the cams and finger follower. This type of finger follower is therefore also called a roller finger follower. Rocker arms a rocker arm from febi bilstein Rocker arms are two-armed levers and are used to change the direction of the force acting. They are used when the camshaft rotates below the bucket tappets. One side of the lever is moved directly by the cam or a pushrod that transmits the cam movement. Due to the rotating bearing in the middle of the rocker arm, the second lever arm moves in the opposite direction and presses on the bucket tappet. The valve is opened. The force of the valve spring closes the valve again as soon as the cam has run down. Valve clearance adjustment for rocker arms and rocker arms Both rocker arms and rocker arms offer the option of adjusting the valve clearance using adjusting screws or valve clearance compensation elements. Thanks to the widespread use of bucket tappets with hydraulic valve clearance compensation, this difficult work is practically a thing of the past in the passenger car sector. The so-called hydro bucket tappets are low-maintenance and maintain the timing precisely in all temperature ranges because there is no valve clearance during operation. The reduced shock excitation also allows the engine to run more smoothly."
engine	Engine control	camshaft		"The camshaft is the linchpin of the engine control system. Its job is to open the cylinder intake and exhaust valves in the right order, at the right time and for the desired duration. Timing belts are often used as a drive to transmit the power of the camshaft. But timing chains and gears are also not uncommon. The respective cam operates the valves by either pressing directly on the hydraulic tappet against the force of the valve spring or by acting on rocker arms or drag levers. The shape of the cams allows the opening behavior of the valves to be determined precisely. Structure of a camshaft A camshaft is either cast in one piece from iron and hardened with graphite or is made of steel, with the individual cams being shrunk onto the steel tube. Wear resistance plays a decisive role in each case. Whether the engine has one or more camshafts depends on its design, but each cam controls only one valve. a camshaft from kfzteile24 Rocker arms and finger followers The camshaft is often located above the valves, but depending on the design and the manufacturer, it can also rotate below the valves. Push rods and levers are used to operate these. Rocker arms, for example, reverse the direction of movement. But even if the camshaft rotates above the valves, roller finger followers are used to minimize wear. The rotating roller of the lever, on which the cam presses, reduces wear by up to 35% and thus extends the service life and maintenance intervals. a camshaft with finger followers and hydraulic tappets Changing the camshaft The removal or replacement of a camshaft should only be carried out by qualified personnel in a specialist workshop. Not only is the dismantling of the drive usually only possible with special tools and any error can potentially lead to engine damage, but there are also a number of things to consider with the camshaft housing itself. It is particularly important to adhere to the torque and angle of rotation, but even the order in which the screws are fastened is important, otherwise the housing could become distorted. The sealing compound must also be applied thinly with a steady and experienced hand without blocking the oil lines. At the same time, of course, no oil should leak out of the engine."
engine	Engine control	Control housing/seal		"The timing case of an engine is usually the area that houses the camshaft drive. In contrast to timing belts, which usually run dry, timing chains and gear drives are lubricated with engine oil. The lubrication reduces wear and enables the engine to run as quietly as possible, but on the other hand it also places high demands on the sealing. For this reason, timing case seals are used to prevent engine oil from escaping from the engine. They must always be replaced when leaks occur, as this represents a defect in the general inspection. Timing case seals are also replaced when, for example, the timing chain is replaced. Timing case seal from an Opel Corsa Changing the timing case seal The timing case seal must always be replaced in a specialist workshop by qualified personnel, as experience is required in addition to special tools. For example, with a timing chain drive, the camshaft sprocket(s) and the timing chain drive sprocket on the crankshaft must be removed before the old seal can be removed and replaced with a new one. It is important to ensure that the original seal is removed carefully and with care. No residue should remain and no grooves should be created in the contact surface."
engine	Engine control	Timing chains/tension/guiding		"Although timing belts have become widely used as a drive element for the camshaft or camshafts, some manufacturers (particularly Mercedes-Benz) continue to use timing chains for engine control. They have the advantage that, depending on the design, they are very durable. Duplex roller chains can have a mileage of up to 500,000 km. Single roller chains, on the other hand, can wear out after just 80,000 to 100,000 km, depending on the load. Timing chains are held taut by tensioning rails, also known as chain tensioners, to minimize vibrations, and are guided by slide rails. Similar to a timing belt, the power is transferred from the crankshaft to the camshaft in a form-fitting manner. Duplex roller chain for engine control Image: Kolossus @wikipedia.org (CC BY-SA 3.0) Timing chain and chain tensioner Structure and function of the timing chain The timing chain's job is to drive the camshaft(s) so that they can actuate the valve tappets in accordance with the engine speed. The right timing is crucial. Incorrect timing not only leads to a loss of power, but in the worst case can also lead to serious engine damage. The timing chain of a car is constructed like a typical roller chain, such as those used on bicycles. Bolts and sleeves connect the inner and outer plates to each other and a roller is mounted on the sleeves. This drastically reduces wear on the chain. Timing chains are often used as duplex chains, i.e. in a design with double links, in order to withstand the high loads of an engine. They are lubricated with oil and run inside the timing case. Advantages of timing chains Timing chains are more expensive than timing belts. They need to be lubricated and tend to run louder. However, they also have advantages: Due to their high strength, it is almost impossible for a duplex roller chain to break. Rather, the wear process is gradual. The chain stretches and the engine initially runs noticeably less smoothly due to the changed timing. If rattling noises are also heard, this is a clear sign that action must be taken, as the teeth of the sprockets are probably no longer engaging the chain. Timing chains are generally very durable and even wearing parts such as the tensioning rails or chain tensioners only need to be replaced after around 150,000 - 300,000 km."
engine	Engine control	Timing chains/tension/guiding	Slide rail	"The purpose of slide rails is to guide the timing chain so that it can run as wear-free as possible on the sprockets of the camshaft gear or the camshaft gears and the crankshaft gear. Slide rails are therefore also known as guide rails. They reduce the vibrations that occur in the timing chain and thus prevent any possible whipping. Slide rails are made of metal or plastic, whereby the sliding surface is usually made of plastic to enable the chain to slide optimally. Nevertheless, they are wearing parts that must be replaced regularly. The intervals are specified by the vehicle manufacturer. Slide rail set from febi bilstein Changing the slide rails Since intervention in the timing chain drive is usually complex and expensive, it is advisable to have it carried out in a specialist workshop and to replace the entire timing chain drive, i.e. the timing chain, the slide rail and the chain tensioner or the tensioning rail as well as the timing case seal at the same time. At kfzteile24 you can get the corresponding parts as a timing chain set, but of course you can also buy slide rails individually. Depending on the design and load, replacing a guide rail is necessary between 150,000 and 300,000 km."
engine	Engine control	Timing chains/tension/guiding	Chain tensioner	"The timing chain transfers the power of the crankshaft to the camshaft(s), thereby controlling the opening and closing of the cylinders' intake and exhaust valves. Chain tensioners and tensioning rails are required to ensure that the chain sits taut and does not swing too much or even skip. The tensioning rail presses against the timing chain with the force of the chain tensioner. The tight fit not only ensures that the valve timing is maintained, but also reduces noise, as a timing chain that is too loose would be noticeable due to rattling. At the same time, the correct chain tension prevents excessive wear on the sprockets and the timing chain itself. Chain tensioner of a timing chain Structure of the chain tensioning device The chain tensioner does not press directly on the chain, but on a pivoting tensioning rail that is attached to the engine block. The tensioning force must not be too great to avoid wear and loss of efficiency. The tensioning device must also be able to react appropriately to changes in the length of the timing chain that occur due to heating and cooling. Pure spring tensioners are therefore unsuitable. Instead, hydraulic chain tensioners are used, which work in a similar way to hydraulic tappets that are familiar from valve trains. A weak spring is located in a cylinder and presses a piston against the tensioning rail so that the timing chain can be pre-tensioned and run without play. Lubrication during operation allows engine oil to enter the chain tensioner via a check valve. If the chain tightens when it cools down, the pressure on the chain tensioner piston slowly presses the oil out of it. If the chain is subjected to short-term pressure, perhaps caused by rotational irregularities in the crankshaft, the chain tensioner reacts almost rigidly because the oil cannot be pressed out of the small holes quickly enough. If, on the other hand, the timing chain lengthens due to heating during operation, the chain tensioner spring presses the piston further against the tensioning rail. New oil can flow through a ball valve and the timing chain is tensioned again."
engine	Engine control	Timing chains/tension/guiding	Tension rail	"In order to tension a timing chain, you need a chain tensioner and a suitable tensioning rail. This transfers the force of the chain tensioner to the timing chain and in this way ensures that it runs smoothly and with little wear. The tensioning rail usually has a plastic slide rail and must be replaced at regular intervals. The manufacturer specifies the replacement intervals. Drawing of a tensioning rail Changing the tensioning rail Like any intervention in the engine control, the tensioning rail should only be replaced by a specialist. The timing case must be opened, the camshaft wheel(s) and the drive wheel on the crankshaft removed. During this process, there must be no misalignment between the camshaft and the crankshaft. The tensioning rail itself is comparatively simple in design and is simply inserted in the intended place. It is attached to the engine at one end and is rotatably mounted so that the pressure of the chain tensioner at the other end and the counterpressure of the chain determine the position of the rail. Since the individual parts of the timing chain can be purchased cheaply and the costs are mainly due to the labor involved, you should replace all parts of the timing chain when you get the chance. You can find corresponding timing chain sets at kfzteile24."
engine	Engine control	Timing chains/tension/guiding	Timing chain	"The timing chain is the central element of the timing chain drive and its job is to transfer the torque of the crankshaft to the camshaft or camshafts. Since the camshaft is responsible for valve control, there must be no time delay or even interruption, as this would result in a loss of power and, in the worst case, engine damage. Timing chains are now installed much less frequently because timing belts are much cheaper, run more smoothly and do not need to be lubricated. However, they are preferred by some manufacturers (particularly Mercedes-Benz) because they have a very long service life, especially as duplex chains. Duplex roller chain as a timing chain for a Mercedes-Benz Chain link of a timing chain Structure of a timing chain Timing chains in the valve train for cars are always roller chains, which are characterized by the fact that a rotating roller is mounted on the sleeve of the chain bolt. The sprockets of the drive wheel and the camshaft wheel or wheels, as well as the timing chain itself, therefore show significantly less wear. As a duplex chain in double design, timing chains can be driven for up to 500,000 km. However, the maintenance intervals are usually shorter, also so that chain tensioners, tensioning and guide rails can be replaced in good time. Changing a timing chain To change a timing chain, the timing case must first be opened. The crankshaft and the camshaft(s) are then fixed in their replacement positions. They must not be adjusted, otherwise the opening times of the valves will be out of sync. The chain is then relaxed and can be replaced. The work should be left to a qualified specialist workshop, even if this is usually associated with high costs. This way you can not only be sure that the timing chain is changed correctly, but you can also be sure that the timing case will be properly sealed again afterwards."
engine	Engine control	Timing chains/tension/guiding	Timing chain kit	"Working on the timing chain is usually time-consuming and expensive, so it can be worthwhile to replace all the wearing parts at once. In this case, a timing chain kit is the ideal solution to ensure that no parts are forgotten when purchasing. However, the scope of delivery varies. As a rule, you always receive a new chain tensioner and, of course, the timing chain. Seals, tensioning and sliding rails are not included in every timing chain kit. You can of course order these separately in our shop. kfzteile24 is a multiple award-winning test winner Changing the timing chain Regardless of whether you bought the parts of the timing chain drive individually or as a timing chain kit, the work is complex and should be carried out by a qualified workshop. Not only must you ensure that the camshaft and crankshaft do not twist against each other, but the timing housing must also be properly sealed again. Otherwise, oil loss would be the result, which would be reported during a general inspection."
engine	Engine control	Spur gear		"In addition to the timing chain drive and in particular the toothed belt drive, the spur gear drive is another type of drive for the camshaft. Instead of a timing belt or timing chain, spur gears transmit the movement of the crankshaft. The gears have the advantage that they can transmit high drive torques very precisely and the length of the engine can be reduced by narrow gears. They are therefore mainly used in aircraft, ships and commercial vehicles. In the automotive sector, with the exception of racing, spur gear drives only play a minor role. The gears that you can buy from us are usually used as part of a timing chain drive. Spur gear of a timing chain drive Gear for the timing chain Disadvantages of a spur gear drive Depending on the design of the engine, numerous gears have to bridge the path from the crankshaft to the camshaft. However, many parts pose a challenge for smooth running and maintenance. In order to minimize wear, spur gears also have to be lubricated and, unlike timing belts, cannot run dry. This results in higher sealing costs. After all, a complete spur gear set has a mass that should not be underestimated and therefore requires more torque - power that is not available to propel the car forward. Changing the spur gears Changing spur gears is, like changing pulleys, a job for experienced specialists. Due to the high time required, the work is correspondingly expensive. We still recommend that you have spur gears replaced in a qualified specialist workshop in order to avoid any loss of performance or even risk engine damage. Also have the timing chain, the chain tensioner and the tensioning and sliding rails checked and replaced if necessary."
engine	Engine control	Tappet/rod/protection tube		"Tappets or bucket tappets in a four-stroke engine are small components that absorb the force of the camshaft and transfer it to the corresponding valve. However, only longitudinal forces should act so that the valve sits straight and can close cleanly again. The transverse forces transmitted by the rotary movement of the camshaft must therefore be prevented. A valve tappet can either be operated directly by a cam on the camshaft or by rocker arms or drag levers. These can in turn be in direct contact with the camshaft or connected to it by means of pushrods. Valve tappets with hydraulic valve clearance compensation Valve tappets for an Opel Corsa Hydraulic valve tappets Hydraulic tappets, also known as hydraulic tappets, are the most modern form of valve tappets. They have the advantage that they automatically compensate for the valve clearance, thereby making the engine easier to maintain. The automatic clearance compensation means that the valve timing can always be precisely maintained in all temperature ranges. If the valve tappet is operated by the camshaft, it is often manufactured with a rotating roller to reduce wear. If, however, rocker arms are used, this roller is located in the rocker arm, which is then referred to as a roller rocker arm. Principle of hydraulic valve clearance compensation The hydraulic tappets are connected to the engine's oil circuit via a side hole. Engine oil flows through this opening into the valve tappet chamber and from there into the reservoir. In the unloaded state, i.e. when the cam is running down, the tappet's pressure pin is relieved and pushed upwards by the clearance compensation spring until it rests on the cam or the rocker arm or rocker arm. This causes oil to flow through an open ball valve into the hydraulic tappet's working chamber. If the tappet is now loaded, the ball valve closes off the working chamber and a ""rigid connection"" is created, i.e. the tappet behaves like a solid body. However, excess oil can escape through an annular gap between the pressure bolt and the guide sleeve, e.g. due to thermal expansion. Incidentally: Due to their design, hydraulic tappets can ""run dry"" if they are not in use for a long time, ie the compensating elements become shorter. This causes a clattering noise the next time the engine is started, but this should disappear again after a short time."
engine	Engine control	Valve/setting	Valve actuation	"In a car, valve control or valve train is the mechanism that controls the intake and exhaust valves of the internal combustion engine. The force emanating from the camshaft, which in turn is driven by the crankshaft, is mechanically transferred to the corresponding valves. Although the basic functionality is always the same, engines differ greatly in their design. Valve actuation is no exception. For example, the camshaft lobes can act directly on the bucket tappets underneath, whereby only the longitudinal forces are to be transferred. Transverse forces from the rotary movement, on the other hand, must be kept away from the valve to prevent the shaft from bending. Rocker arms Rocker arms, roller cam followers and push rods If the force is not transmitted by bucket tappets, depending on the arrangement of the camshaft or camshafts, rocker arms and cam followers are used, which usually act on the hydraulic tappets underneath. The advantage of these actuation systems is the design freedom for valve actuation. Even camshafts that rotate below the valves are possible. In this case, push rods transmit the force from the cam. The rocker arms mounted above the valves redirect the force and press on the hydraulic tappets. Roller rocker arms, on the other hand, function largely like bucket tappets in that they keep the transverse forces low and only press on the hydraulic tappet in the longitudinal direction. This always opens the valve against the force of the valve spring, which closes the valve again after the cam has run down."
engine	Engine control	Valve/setting	Valves/Accessories	"The intake and exhaust valves of a four-stroke engine look like a large upside-down nail. Their job is to regulate the supply of fresh air or fuel-air mixture and the discharge of exhaust gases, controlled by the camshaft(s). The diameter of the valve plate and the valve lift must therefore be large enough to enable gas exchange. The exhaust valve often has a smaller diameter because the high pressure allows for faster emptying. Valve for an engine Valve from febi bilstein Structure of a valve The valve consists of a valve plate which, in conjunction with the valve seat, must seal the combustion chamber gas-tight. The valve stem, which has notches or grooves at the upper end, is connected to the valve plate. This is where the valve cones are attached and are held in place by the valve spring plate. Valves are highly stressed components which are subject to wear due to friction on the valve stem and thermal and chemical stress on the valve plate. Intake valves can reach temperatures of up to 500  C. Exhaust valves can reach temperatures of up to 900  C. The manufacturing process differs accordingly. Differences between intake valves and exhaust valves Even if they look similar on the outside, intake and exhaust valves are usually manufactured differently. Intake valves are usually made of one metal, whereby the valve seat, the valve stem and the recess for the cone pieces can each be hardened. Exhaust valves, on the other hand, are produced as bimetal valves. The valve plate and the lower end of the valve stem are made of steel that is corrosion and heat resistant in order to withstand the extreme stresses caused by the hot exhaust gases. However, this type of steel cannot be hardened and slides poorly, which would have a negative effect on the wear of the stem in the valve guide. The valve would seize up. To prevent this, hardenable steel with good sliding properties is used at the upper end, which is connected to the lower end of the valve by friction welding. Hollow valves with sodium filling Another special feature for exhaust valves are so-called hollow valves, which are filled with sodium up to approx. 60%. The sodium melts due to the temperature of the valve plate and is thrown back and forth by the movement of the valve. This results in better heat dissipation, so that the valve plate is up to 100  C cooler than with exhaust valves without a corresponding cavity. These special requirements for exhaust valves are also the reason why they are usually significantly more expensive."
engine	Engine control	Gears		"If you have a vehicle with a timing chain, you will of course need gears instead of pulleys for the engine control. The positive connection between the respective gear ring and the chain means that high torques can be transmitted very precisely between the crankshaft and camshaft. In order to minimize wear on the gear and the timing chain, roller chains are used in which pivoting rollers move on the sleeves of the chain links. Duplex chains also halve the force acting on the individual tooth or chain roller for the same torque. Thanks to good lubrication using engine oil, duplex roller chains last a long time and can reach mileages of up to 500,000 km. Gear for the crankshaft Gear or spur gear? There are many different types of gears, with spur gears being the most common form. It is a round disk that is evenly toothed on the outside over its entire circumference. The power is transmitted in a positive manner and is therefore slip-free, which is particularly important for engine control. Gear, spur gear or cylindrical gear are therefore synonyms with regard to a timing chain. However, the term gear is broader and can theoretically also refer to elliptical gears, bevel gears, crown gears and worm gears."
engine	lubrication			"Lubrication of the engine In addition to removing heat, oil in combustion engines is primarily used for lubrication. In this context, a distinction can be made between pressure circulation lubrication, also known as wet sump lubrication, and dry sump lubrication. Wet sump lubrication is used in the vast majority of current car models. In this system, the oil is carried in an oil pan below the crankshaft. An oil pump, or more depending on the car, transports the oil to the oil filter, from where it is then fed through channels to the lubrication points. The oil film that forms on the piston track in the cylinder prevents the piston or cylinder from wearing out prematurely. Nevertheless, a certain amount of abrasion is unavoidable and the corresponding particles are removed by the oil filter. Dripping oil is then collected again in the oil pan so that the process can start again from the beginning. In contrast, with dry sump lubrication, the lubricant is carried separately in a container. A return pump sucks the dripping oil back into this oil container. The advantage of this system is a lower engine height, even with larger amounts of oil. This improves the center of gravity because the engine can be installed lower, and the cooling because more oil is used to transport heat. On the other hand, the construction is more complex, which is usually more expensive. Possible defects Leaking engine oil Oil on the engine block, cylinder head, valve cover or in the area of ??the oil pump Too low or too high oil pressure Overheating of the engine"
engine	lubrication	Oil pressure switch/sensor/valve		"Lubricating the engine with enough oil is essential in order to be able to achieve the desired performance and at the same time minimize wear. For this reason, the operating status of the oil is monitored by all kinds of sensors. The driver is informed of any deviations via corresponding indicator lights so that countermeasures can be taken in good time before damage occurs. Engine oil level sensor Oil pressure switch for a VW Golf III Function of the oil pressure switch The oil pressure switch should actually be called an oil non-pressure switch, because the circuit to the corresponding indicator light is activated when the oil pressure falls below a specified value. This can happen if there is not enough oil in the oil pan and air is sucked in instead. Extreme tilt can also cause the oil pressure switch to sound the alarm. Put the vehicle on a level surface, switch off the engine and check the oil level after a while. If there is enough oil, either the oil pressure switch or the oil pump is defective. Function of the oil pressure valve But too much oil pressure is also a problem for the engine and is by no means a sign of good lubrication. For example, blockages in the oil line can cause the pressure to rise sharply. Cold oil or engine oil with too high a viscosity also increase the pressure. To protect the system, oil pressure valves are installed through which the excess pressure can escape. The component, also known as the oil pressure relief valve, opens at around 5 bar. Temperature sensor for the engine oil What does the oil sensor do? The oil sensor is often used to record the temperature, fill level and condition of the engine oil. It is usually installed in the oil pan and measures the capacity of the oil via a capacitor. Wear and tear and the degradation of the additives change the capacity value of the oil and the sensor informs the driver that the oil needs to be changed. The driver is also usually informed of the fill level and temperature of the oil."
engine	lubrication	Oils		"Oil is an important operating fluid in every combustion engine. It lubricates, cools, seals, protects against corrosion, cleans and even dampens vibrations and thus noise. The selection is huge and the requirements for engine oil vary from car to car. Of course, viscosity is one of the most important properties of an oil, but engine oils differ in many other ways. There are mineral oils and synthetic-based oils, which, depending on the engine concept, are supplemented with additives in order to optimally match the physical properties of the oil to the respective engine. kfzteile24 is a multiple award-winning test winner Pay attention to the manufacturer approvals When buying oil, you should make sure that the oil has the relevant approval from the vehicle manufacturer. This is the only way to be sure that the engine oil meets all operational requirements and lasts a long time. But even the best oil has to be changed at some point, as it is subject to chemical, mechanical and thermal stress and is subject to an aging process. Combustion residues and the smallest dust and abrasion particles are separated by the oil filter, which also has to be replaced when the oil is changed. When refilling, make sure not to use too much or too little oil. Therefore, check the oil dipstick until the oil level is between the minimum and maximum. Also start the engine and then wait a few minutes. This allows the oil filter to fill up and the engine oil to collect in the oil pan again after the engine has run."
engine	lubrication	Oil filter housing/seal		"In order for combustion engines to operate with minimal wear, they must be lubricated. Parts of the oil required for this burn due to the high heat generated and must be removed from the oil using a suitable filter. Metal abrasion and other dirt are also retained by the oil filter. As a rule, it should be changed every year or every 10,000 to 30,000 kilometers. The oil filter is located in a suitable oil filter housing, which is closed with a precisely fitting cover and the right seal. No oil may escape from the circuit in order to ensure constant lubrication of the engine and to protect the environment."
engine	lubrication	Oil cooler/attachments	poetry	"An internal combustion engine converts chemical energy into kinetic energy, light and heat. The heat generated must be carried away by the engine oil and the coolant to avoid damage. So that the oil can in turn release the energy well, oil coolers are used, which of course have to be sealed at their connection points with suitable seals or sealing rings and seal sets. The seals for the oil cooler are usually round because the corresponding oil lines are round. The oil cooler works either air-cooled, with the oil flowing through a heat sink with a large surface area and releasing the heat to the ambient air, or more commonly liquid-cooled. In this case, the oil cooler is integrated into the cooling circuit of the coolant. The oil releases the energy to the coolant, which in turn is cooled by air at the cooler. Of course, oil and water must not come into contact with each other in the oil cooler. Suitable seals ensure that the system functions properly."
engine	lubrication	Oil cooler/attachments	oil cooler	"When developing high-performance combustion engines, the removal of the heat generated is a crucial challenge. The unit should achieve the highest possible speeds and torques, but must still operate as wear-free as possible. Only a sophisticated cooling system using engine oil and coolant is able to quickly and reliably reduce the temperatures generated on the cylinder walls. Neither the engine oil nor the coolant must start to boil. Oil coolers are part of such a cooling system. The heated oil flows through the oil cooler and either releases the energy directly into the ambient air, or the oil cooler is liquid-cooled, so that the cooling water absorbs the heat and then releases it into the air via the cooler in the front of the vehicle. Oil cooler from febi bilstein Advantages of liquid-cooled oil coolers If the oil cooler is liquid-cooled, it can be comparatively small, since the energy is transferred much more easily than if it were transferred to the ambient air. A large fin surface is therefore not necessary. However, an appropriate design and suitable seals must be used to ensure that the engine oil and coolant cannot mix. Oil coolers are usually made of metal to ensure good thermal conductivity and cost between 20 and 40 euros."
engine	lubrication	Oil dipstick		"The oil dipstick is also known as an oil dipstick and is usually a thin metal rod or metal wire that reaches into the engine's oil pan. It allows the driver to check the oil level and is usually easily accessible with the hood open. One end of the oil dipstick is usually shaped like a handle and equipped with a seal so that the oil dipstick can be held and screwed tightly. The lower end has a reading area that shows the minimum and maximum oil levels. Enough engine oil should be filled so that the reading is between the two markings. Oil dipstick from febi bilstein Correct use of the oil dipstick Reading the oil level is one of the simplest but also most important tasks that a driver should carry out regularly to ensure that the car is roadworthy. Engine oil is essential for lubricating and cooling the engine and also has a cleaning function as it carries away dirt and abrasion, which is then separated out by the oil filter. The oil dipstick is first unscrewed and the measuring surface is cleaned with a rag or cloth. The oil dipstick is then screwed back in completely. The stick is now pulled out again and the oil level can be read. The edge of the visible oil film should be between the min and max markings. Please note that the oil level is usually measured when the engine is cold or that the oil should at least have time to flow completely back into the oil pan after a journey. This prevents overfilling. After an oil change, the engine is of course started so that the oil filter can soak up the oil before the oil level is checked again."
engine	lubrication	Oil pump/attachments	Drive chain	"The oil pressure pump has the task of generating a sufficiently high oil pressure and pumping the engine oil from the oil pan into the corresponding oil channels of the engine. The pump itself can be designed as a simple gear pump, sickle pump or rotor pump and is driven by the crankshaft. The power is transmitted either via intermediate shafts or a drive chain. It must not break, otherwise the engine oil will not reach the lubrication points. For this reason, the oil pressure is constantly monitored by an oil pressure gauge and the driver is informed by an oil pressure warning light. If this lights up while driving, the engine should be turned off as quickly as possible to clarify the problem and avoid total loss. Oil pump drive chain Chain and chain set for the oil pump drive The oil pump drive is usually designed so that it rarely needs to be replaced and, depending on the manufacturer, lasts around 250,000 kilometers. However, if the engine has reached the appropriate mileage, the drive chain should be checked and replaced if necessary. Due to the constant tensile load, it could stretch so much over time that even the chain tensioner can no longer compensate for this. The drive chain for the oil pressure pump is usually a roller chain that runs in an oil bath and has little wear. However, if it needs to be replaced, the work should be carried out by an experienced specialist workshop."
engine	lubrication	Oil pump/attachments	poetry	"Depending on the vehicle model and manufacturer, several oil pressure pumps and oil suction pumps can ensure reliable lubrication of the engine. But no matter how many oil pumps are working in your car, the right seal is always necessary. After all, oil loss is a defect in the general inspection because leaking engine oil pollutes the environment. Apart from that, the oil should of course reach the lubrication points inside the engine and not dirty the engine compartment. Also replace the seal if you replace a defective oil pump or change the drive chain."
engine	lubrication	Oil pump/attachments	Oil pump	"In order for the engine to be lubricated and cooled, an oil pump is required that builds up the necessary pressure to press the engine oil through the lines and oil channels of the unit. This so-called pressure circulation lubrication is the most common form of engine lubrication in vehicles and is sometimes implemented in modern cars using several oil pressure pumps and oil suction pumps. Depending on the vehicle manufacturer, model and engine concept, the oil pumps are driven in different ways and also differ in their structure. What they all have in common, however, is that the oil is sucked in from a reservoir, often the oil pan, through an oil filter and possibly a subsequent oil cooler. Oil pumps pump between 250 and 350 liters per hour and generate an oil pressure of between 3.5 and 5 bar. If the pressure continues to rise, a pressure relief valve intervenes to prevent damage. Oil pump from Blue Print open gear pump Structure of oil pumps The oil pump is usually driven by a drive chain or an intermediate shaft through the crankshaft. The oil pump is sometimes connected to the crankshaft via a gear transmission. A distinction is made between gear pumps, sickle pumps and rotor pumps. In gear pumps, two gears rotate in a pump housing. The rotary movement transports the oil from the suction chamber along the inner wall of the pump into the pressure chamber. The teeth in the middle prevent the oil from flowing back and pressure builds up on the pressure side. A sickle pump, on the other hand, consists of an internal gear, which is usually mounted directly on the crankshaft, and a larger external gear with internal teeth, which is arranged eccentrically. The resulting suction and pressure chambers are separated from one another by a sickle. Compared to normal gear pumps, sickle pumps offer a higher delivery rate, especially at low engine speeds. Oil pump for an Audi 80 Another type of oil pump is the so-called rotor pump, which consists of an externally toothed inner rotor and an internally toothed outer rotor. The outer rotor has one more tooth, so that when the inner rotor rotates in relation to the outer rotor on the intake side, the pump chambers continually increase in size. On the pressure side, the space decreases accordingly - pressure builds up. The inner rotor is driven by the crankshaft and in turn moves the outer rotor. This type of oil pump can generate high pressures with the appropriate flow rate and is usually used as a regulated rotor pump. An additional control ring, which rotates using a control spring and the oil pressure, allows the oil pressure to be kept constant in all operating situations. Interpreting high oil pressure correctly Oil pressure that is too low is always a sign that the oil pump is not able to build up enough pressure to adequately lubricate all of the engine's lubrication points. The oil pump could be defective.the filter may be clogged or oil may be leaking somewhere. But even high oil pressure is not necessarily a guarantee of optimal lubrication. If you accidentally use the wrong engine oil with too high a viscosity, you will also generate high oil pressure without the engine oil actually reaching all the lubrication points. Low temperatures or blocked oil lines can also cause the pressure in the system to rise. If the pressure continues to rise, lines and seals can be damaged. The oil pressure valve is designed to prevent this."
engine	lubrication	Oil pump/attachments	Intake manifold	"The engines of modern cars are usually lubricated by a pressure-circulation lubrication system using an oil pump. In order to pump the oil from the corresponding reservoir, usually the oil pan, a corresponding suction pipe is required. It is connected to the oil pump on one side and is often mounted on a strainer on the other side, which is anchored in the lowest part of the oil pan. In this way, enough oil can be sucked in to ensure lubrication, even in dynamic driving situations and when tilting to the side."
engine	lubrication	Oil hoses/lines		"Regardless of whether a car is subjected to exceptional stress or whether the vehicle is only used in normal traffic, oil lines must be stable and leak-proof. Materials that can withstand high pressures and temperatures, are lightweight and visually appealing have therefore become popular. Advanced materials such as PTFE, rubber, stainless steel and aluminum have now conquered the market. They are less prone to breakage and are very flexible. This prevents material wear, which can be seen in the increasingly brittle nature of the oil hose. Oil hose from febi bilstein Change oil hoses when necessary If a brittle oil hose is not replaced, it will inevitably leak at some point. A new innovation is braided oil hoses, in which the different material properties are combined and optimized. They are characterized by their long durability and can withstand temperatures of -40 to +130 degrees Celsius. However, vehicle owners should check the oil line regularly despite the high-quality oil hose. The replacement is comparatively simple and buying a new oil hose is significantly cheaper than repairing or, in the worst case, replacing an inadequately lubricated engine."
engine	lubrication	Oil strainer/seal		"The oil strainer is the forerunner of the oil filter that is common today. The VW Beetle, for example, was not equipped with an oil filter from the factory. Instead, an oil strainer in the drain cap took over this function. Of course, the strainer can only keep out coarse dirt and abrasion, so that a much more frequent oil change is necessary. It is therefore recommended that you change the oil in your Beetle every 7,000 - 8,000 kilometers to ensure that you can enjoy your car for a long time. The right seal prevents the engine oil from leaking out."
engine	lubrication	Oil sump		"The term oil sump comes from a time before pressure circulation lubrication and refers to the oil reservoir, i.e. the oil pan. Without an oil pump or pipes, the oil was scooped out of the oil sump through sheet metal bowls on the crankshaft and distributed throughout the engine. This type of lubrication has the disadvantage that the lubrication points cannot be reached precisely and is unsuitable for higher performance. The term oil sump has nevertheless managed to hold its own and is used synonymously with oil pan. Of course, the oil sump, which is located at the bottom of the crankcase, must be properly sealed."
engine	lubrication	Oil thermostat		"Like the thermostat for the coolant, the oil thermostat has the task of optimizing the cold start behavior of an engine. The oil is initially cold and therefore significantly more viscous than when it reaches operating temperature. This can affect lubrication. In order to bring the engine oil up to temperature as quickly as possible, the usual cooling circuit of the oil via the corresponding oil cooler is initially interrupted by the oil thermostat. The control temperature is usually between 75  Celsius and 90  Celsius. When the engine oil reaches this temperature, the supply to the oil cooler is completely opened by the thermostat. Oil thermostat for a BMW 3 318i Structure and function of the oil thermostat Oil thermostats work with an expansion element in a similar way to coolant thermostats. The waxy material melts at a set temperature depending on its composition. By changing its state of aggregation, the expansion material increases its volume and in this way moves a working piston, which in turn clears the way to the oil cooler. If the oil falls below the control temperature, the expansion material solidifies again and the inlet to the oil cooler is closed."
engine	lubrication	Oil pan/attachments	Drain plug	"In order to be able to change the engine oil, oil pans are fitted with a drain plug that is located at the lowest point of the oil sump. The vehicle is lifted, a suitable collecting container is placed underneath and the drain plug is simply unscrewed. With a little practice and skill, you can even remove the drain plug without the old oil running over your fingers or getting your clothes dirty. The drain plug does not always need to be replaced, but you always have to replace the corresponding sealing ring. So if the seal is integrated into the drain plug, there is no way around changing it. When screwing in the drain plug, make sure that it does not become jammed and tighten it with the correct torque."
engine	lubrication	Oil pan/attachments	poetry	"The oil pan is usually in the shape of a bowl and is located under the crankcase. To ensure that the connection to the engine is tight, an appropriate oil pan gasket is required. Its shape follows the contact surface and can be made of cork, rubber or metal. Holes for the oil pan's fastening screws are punched into the oil pan gasket and due to its shape it can usually only be installed in one direction. You should make sure to completely remove the remains of the old oil pan gasket. Oil pan gasket made of cork Changing the oil pan gasket As with most engine gaskets, changing the oil pan gasket is a job for a qualified specialist workshop. Depending on the car, this can be more expensive than the gasket itself. In any case, the oil is drained and the oil filter is replaced, and then the oil pan is professionally dismantled. Now the old oil pan gasket must be completely removed. The oil pan and the new oil pan gasket are then reinstalled. The work is finished once the new engine oil has been filled and a leak test has been carried out. Depending on the workshop, hourly rate and vehicle, this work costs from about 200 euros upwards."
engine	lubrication	Oil pan/attachments	sump	"The oil pan houses the oil reservoir of an engine and is also known as the oil sump. It is usually located below the crankcase and is connected to the oil pump via oil hoses or oil lines. The oil pump pumps the oil through the engine's lubrication channels, where it performs its function. The oil circuit is supplemented by an oil filter that separates dirt and abrasion particles. The engine oil can release some of the heat it absorbs via an oil cooler if necessary. Oil pan of an Audi 80 Shape of the oil pan The oil pan must be large enough to be able to carry all the oil required for the engine. The suction point of the oil pump is often located in a further recess so that oil and not air is sucked in even when the vehicle is leaning. For this reason, it is also important to regularly check the oil level in the oil pan with an oil dipstick. The oil pan can also be installed as an extra reservoir with dry sump lubrication. In this case, the oil does not simply flow back but is pressed into the oil pan by a suction pump. This significantly more expensive design offers the advantage that the oil pan can be installed decoupled from the engine, which benefits cooling. The system is also able to maintain lubrication even when the vehicle is leaning at extreme angles. However, dry sump lubrication is usually only used in high-performance sports cars and off-road vehicles."
engine	Cylinder head/attachments			"The cylinder head has the task of closing off the combustion chamber above the cylinders. The inlet and outlet valves and the corresponding channels are housed in it. It usually also forms the compression chamber and houses the injection valves in engines with direct injection. If the fuel-air mixture is ignited by means of spark plugs (petrol engines), these are also located in the cylinder head. The cylinder head is attached to the cylinder block in a gas-tight manner using cylinder head screws and a cylinder head gasket. Cylinder head Cylinder head screws Cylinder head gasket Structure of the cylinder head The cylinder head is usually made of aluminum and has to withstand extreme loads. As a result of combustion, pressure and heat stress the component. Thanks to its high dimensional rigidity, good heat conduction and low thermal expansion, the cylinder head helps the engine to convert chemical energy into kinetic energy as efficiently as possible. The number and arrangement of the valves are also constantly optimized with a view to ensuring the most efficient combustion possible. The cylinder head accommodates up to five valves and two spark plugs per cylinder. The total surface area of ??the intake valves is always larger than that of the exhaust valves, as pushing out the burned exhaust gases is easier and quicker than filling with fresh gas and fuel. The cylinder head in in-line engines usually consists of a single cast part on which the camshaft usually sits. V-engines require two cylinder heads depending on the bank angle of the cylinders. The cylinder head can also consist of individual parts for each cylinder. Cooling the cylinder head Due to the high loads, the cylinder head must be sufficiently cooled to prevent wear and material fatigue. In modern vehicles this is done by means of liquid cooling. The water pump pushes the coolant through appropriate cooling channels through the cylinder block and the cylinder head. The water absorbs the heat and releases it into the ambient air at the radiator. The engine oil also transports any heat that is generated. In older and weaker engines the cylinder head can also be air-cooled. The heat is then released directly via appropriate cooling fins. Sealing the cylinder head The seal between the cylinder head and the cylinder block is called the cylinder head gasket and has the task of connecting both components in a gas-tight manner. It is subject to thermal, chemical and mechanical stress and should adapt to all sealing surfaces as elastically as possible. At the same time, a low tendency to settle is an advantage in order to prevent tension in the cylinder head. For the same reason, when assembling the cylinder head, it is essential to pay attention to the order of screwing, which is specified by the manufacturer.Metal-soft material cylinder head gaskets and pure metal cylinder head gaskets are used for high-performance diesel engines."
engine	Cylinder head/attachments	Intake/exhaust manifold gasket/sealing ring		"Seals play an important role in many areas of an engine and the intake manifold and exhaust manifold are no exception. Their job is always to seal the transition between different components on the inside and outside. For example, the fresh air required for combustion enters the engine via the intake manifold. The fuel-air mixture is optimized by the corresponding control unit with regard to consumption, performance and exhaust gas behavior. Exhaust manifold seal VW Golf III If the seal is defective, however, the mixing ratio between air and fuel is disrupted. The secondary air drawn in by the negative pressure in the intake manifold can lead to reduced performance and inefficient combustion with poorer exhaust gas values. Sealing ring intake manifold Seal for the exhaust manifold The seal on the exhaust manifold or exhaust manifold is also important, but for a different reason. It ensures that no hot exhaust gases, which also contain numerous pollutants, can escape. Instead, the manifold seal ensures that the burned gases are fed into the exhaust system to be cleaned by the catalytic converter. Silencers then ensure that the sound pressure is reduced. The exhaust manifold gasket between the engine block and the exhaust manifold is subjected to high thermal, chemical and mechanical stress and must be able to seal the transition in every operating state. How do you recognize faulty manifold gaskets? A defective intake manifold gasket and the resulting deviations in combustion are usually detected by the on-board diagnostics. However, you need experience and specialist knowledge to be able to read from the error message that may appear on the lambda sensor that the gasket is affected. A defective exhaust manifold gasket, on the other hand, can usually be recognized by a layperson and is often expressed in an unusually loud engine noise. The car sounds like a tractor when driving past. Changing the gaskets In order to be able to change the manifold gaskets, you have to dismantle the corresponding manifold and remove all parts that are in the way. Depending on the vehicle model and manufacturer, this involves a certain amount of effort, which drives up the costs. The gaskets themselves, on the other hand, are inexpensive. They usually consist of a combination of materials, using metals and elastomers. The plastic is usually applied as a thin layer to the seal and seals the transition between the engine and the manifold, even in the event of vibrations and shocks."
engine	Cylinder head/attachments	Coolant nozzle/seal		"The coolant nozzle or coolant pipe establishes the connection between the cooling system and the cylinder head. The coolant moved by the water pump flows through the cylinder block and the cylinder head and absorbs heat in the process. The coolant flows through the coolant nozzle to the radiator where it releases the energy into the ambient air. Like the entire cooling system, the coolant nozzle must of course be sealed to prevent the loss of coolant. Seals are used for this, which you can of course also buy cheaply from kfzteile24. The seal is usually made of rubber and is replaced as soon as it starts to drip at the connection point of the coolant pipe. The seal is also usually replaced when the coolant nozzle is replaced."
engine	Cylinder head/attachments	Oil filler cap/seal		"A leaky oil system is a common problem for older cars. Oil loss from the engine and drive is the second most common defect that leads to the refusal of a sticker during a general inspection, especially for vehicles that are 10 years old or more. This is the result of surveys by the T V, which were summarized in the T V Report 2017. Unfortunately, changing the seal is usually a large, complex and therefore costly procedure. Fortunately, the situation is different with the oil cap or oil filler neck. It is usually easy to reach, but must also be sealed with a suitable seal."
engine	Cylinder head/attachments	Vacuum pump		"Vacuum pumps in cars are often referred to as vacuum pumps, even though they do not actually create a vacuum. The pressure generated is usually transferred via a liquid in corresponding pressure lines. In the braking system, for example, the vacuum pump ensures that the driver has to use noticeably less force to slow the car down. Fuel pumps, on the other hand, transport the fuel from the tank to the fuel filter and finally into the engine. They achieve flow rates of 60 - 200 l/h at a pressure of approx. 3-4 bar. Direct injection systems work with pre-feed pumps that build up pressure of up to 7 bar. Fuel pump Audi A4 Avant Flow pumps and positive displacement pumps The electric pumps for pressure build-up differ in their function and properties. In flow pumps, for example, a large number of small impellers drive the corresponding liquid, which heats up due to the increasing pressure in the closed system. If, for example, vapor bubbles form in a fuel flow pump, this vapor is simply separated via a corresponding pipe. Positive displacement pumps with roller cells or internal gears, on the other hand, are not capable of this. Their advantage, however, is that they enable significantly higher pressures. A combination of both principles is therefore not unusual. First, a flow pump builds up the initial pressure. It works quietly and without pulsation and any vapor bubbles that arise are discharged. In the next step, a positive displacement pump compresses the liquid further to reach the desired pressure."
engine	Cylinder head/attachments	Valve guide/seal/adjustment		"The valve stem seal is part of the valve guide and looks like a sleeve. It surrounds the valve and sits at the top of the valve guide. The job of the valve stem seal is to always ensure a sufficient oil film within the valve guide and at the same time limit the amount of oil so that no engine oil runs through the valve guide. The valve can then move with little resistance and little wear and damage to the catalytic converter due to burnt oil is avoided. Valve stem seal VW Golf III Structure and replacement of the valve stem seal Like many seals in an engine, the valve stem seal is a relatively unspectacular component that is usually made of plastic and metal. The valve stem seal is made up of a carrier sleeve that is mounted on the valve guide and the actual sealing body, the sealing lip of which is pressed onto the valve by an annular spring. Due to their proximity to the combustion chamber, the valve stem seals are exposed to high heat and can become brittle and leaky with age. Damage to the sealing lip can also be the cause of a leak. As a result, oil consumption increases and bluish smoke can emerge from the tailpipe of the exhaust. Replacing the valve stem seal is something for professionals and should only be carried out by a qualified workshop. Finally, the engine control unit must be dismantled and the cylinder head removed. Once you have done your work, you should clean the valves and the valve guide and lightly oil them. The stem seal is then pressed onto the valve guide or brought into position with light hammer blows."
engine	Cylinder head/attachments	Shaft seals		"The shaft seal, also known as Wedi or Wdr for short, has the task of sealing the engine at the shaft outlet. This prevents the oil required for lubrication and cooling from escaping. The design challenge is to not hinder the rotation of the shaft and at the same time to achieve a secure seal. This is generally more difficult with moving parts than with rigid connections because it must be ensured that neither the shafts nor the seal wear out excessively. The seal must not be too tight because the torque of the crankshaft is ultimately intended primarily for propulsion. Shaft seals are mainly needed for the camshaft and the crankshaft. Shaft seal Structure of a shaft seal The inventor of the shaft seal is the Austrian engineer Walther Simmer, who initially made it from metal and leather in 1929. The Wedi is therefore also often referred to as a Simmerring, although this is now a protected brand name. Modern shaft seals are usually made of metal and rubber and are firmly seated in the engine housing as radial shaft seals. The sealing lip rests on the shaft and is partially pressed onto the shaft by a circumferential hose spring. Depending on the shaft seal, the hose spring may also be omitted and the sealing lip may be made of plastic. The long service life of the seal depends not only on the shaft seal, but also on the material properties of the shaft itself. It is usually ground without twisting in order to reduce wear."
engine	Cylinder head/attachments	Cylinder head		"In addition to many other car parts and car spare parts, kfzteile24 also offers cylinder heads in its online shop. Due to its complexity and complex production, a cylinder head is one of the most expensive parts of a car, along with the engine block. This makes it all the more important to pay attention to quality and compare prices when buying a cylinder head. At kfzteile24, you can buy a high-quality cylinder head from a brand manufacturer such as Blue Print online at a reasonable price and also order the matching gaskets, sealing rings and plugs from Elring or Victor Reinz. Cylinder head image: afrank99 (CC BY-SA 2.0) High costs when replacing the cylinder head The cylinder head and its attachments have the task of closing off the engine's combustion chamber from the moving piston. Due to the complex structure of an engine, replacing a cylinder head is associated with considerable costs. It is therefore advisable to check whether the replacement is economical, as the repair costs often exceed the value of the car. Professional mechanics and ambitious hobby mechanics, on the other hand, can save money by installing a cheap cylinder head themselves. However, the work usually requires experience and special tools. Oil loss in old cars The oil circulating in the engine is a challenge, especially for older vehicles, because connection points or transitions become leaky. The cylinder head gasket between the cylinder head and cylinder block can also be affected. However, leaking oil is not only harmful to the environment, it also represents a significant defect during the general inspection and must be repaired. Depending on the vehicle, the costs can amount to several thousand euros due to the high level of effort involved. If the effort is worth it for your car, you can of course also buy the right cylinder head gaskets from kfzteile24."
engine	Cylinder head/attachments	Cylinder head gasket		"The cylinder head gasket is an important component in the system of a vehicle's drive unit. It seals the connection between the cylinder head and the cylinder block. Modern diesel engines and gasoline engines with direct injection in particular place the highest demands on processing quality and precision fit in order to avoid damage to the engine and to ensure a long service life for the drive unit. A cylinder head gasket is subjected to high levels of stress from thermal and mechanical factors, so great care and the use of the best materials are important in its manufacture. In principle, a cylinder head gasket is made from a metal grid or a carrier sheet that is inserted into a heat-resistant plastic mass. The most modern processes use metal layer steel gaskets, the surfaces of which are then sealed with very thin elastomer layers. Cylinder head gasket for an Opel Astra F Cylinder head gasket from Victor Reinz Requirements for a cylinder head gasket: seal reliably against gas, oil and coolants be deformable and free from retightening remain unchanged under chemical influences have a long service life withstand thermal stress"
engine	Cylinder head/attachments	Cylinder head cover/gasket		"The cylinder head cover closes the cylinder head and usually forms the upper end of a combustion engine. If it is removed, you can see the valves or hydraulic tappets that are housed in the cylinder head. For this reason, the cylinder head cover is also often referred to as a valve cover or cylinder head cover. Of course, the connection between the cylinder head and the valve cover must also be sealed so that no oil can leak out. For a long time, the corresponding valve cover gaskets were made of cork or pressed materials, but rubber and plastic gaskets have now become more common. They compensate for the tiniest of bumps at the flat connection points. The screws used to attach the cylinder head cover must also be fitted with suitable gaskets. Valve cover gasket Cylinder head cover or valve cover Replacing the valve cover gasket If oil leaks between the cylinder head and the cylinder head cover, the gasket must be replaced. In older cars in particular, these can become porous and slowly dissolve due to mechanical, thermal and chemical stress. As with all engine gaskets, the valve cover gasket is also inexpensive. It is easy to manufacture, but complex to install. You should therefore leave the installation to a qualified specialist workshop. They will completely remove the old seal, fit the new seal and fasten the valve cover with the correct torque."
engine	Cylinder head/attachments	Cylinder head bolts		"The cylinder head bolts must always be replaced if the cylinder head has been removed from the cylinder block and is to be reassembled. These are so-called expansion bolts that are able to compensate for deformations of the parts to be connected. This is achieved by a usually slim, elongated shaft of the bolts, which acts like a pre-tensioned tension spring. They play an important role in combustion engines in particular, as the enormous temperature changes and the associated material expansion between the cold unit and ongoing operation lead to changes in the force on the screw connection. Normal bolts could either loosen or break if overstressed. Cylinder head bolts Always replace cylinder head bolts Anyone working on a cylinder head should have new cylinder head bolts on hand so that the component can be firmly and tightly reconnected to the cylinder block. Just as when loosening the cylinder head, make sure that the cylinder head bolts are tightened in the correct order. This is specified in the corresponding repair manual to avoid tensile deformation, especially in aluminum cylinder heads. The cylinder head bolts must be tightened to the specified torque. Then tighten again using the specified angle of rotation. Work with even force and avoid sudden loads. Changing a cylinder head gasket or replacing valves or hydraulic tappets should be carried out by a qualified specialist workshop anyway."
Lamps	Lamps			"Many drivers are not aware of how many lights are installed on a vehicle. The lamps required for these are among the wearing parts of a car and should be checked regularly and replaced if necessary. Defective light bulbs and xenon lamps are recorded as defects during the general inspection at the latest, because if a light is present, it must also be operational. Therefore, always be prepared and buy light bulbs and other lamps for your vehicle, preferably in advance. It is also advisable to carry a set of lamps in the car. Halogen lamp Osram Night Breaker Laser An overview of a car's lamps Due to strict legal requirements, the lighting of a vehicle is regulated in detail. For example, you need lamps for the indicators as well as lamps for the brake and tail lights. The license plate must also be illuminated. Lamps for the rear fog lights, reversing lights and any daytime running lights are just as necessary as the lamps for the main headlights. Incandescent bulbs and LEDs are also used in the interior, for example to provide unobtrusive and glare-free illumination for the instruments on the dashboard, while parking light bulbs enable orientation in the car at night. The bulbs can have very different shapes, bases and sizes depending on their area of ??application. In the glove compartment and for lighting the license plate, festoon bulbs or festoon bulbs are usually used. These cylindrical, electrical bulbs have two contacts that are attached to opposite ends. If a stronger light output is required, larger bulb-shaped bulbs are usually used, which are also colloquially known as light bulbs. Changing bulbs In principle, changing bulbs is not a challenge. Remove the old bulb from the base and insert a new, suitable bulb. The difficulty, however, lies in the detail. Depending on the design of the vehicle, simply replacing a bulb can be so difficult that a visit to the workshop is necessary. The defective bulb may be difficult to remove due to space constraints, or it may not be accessible at all. In some cars, for example, the headlights have to be removed in order to replace the bulbs, which sometimes means removing the front section. If the headlight has been removed, it must then be adjusted correctly to ensure correct illumination without blinding oncoming traffic. In any case, when changing the bulbs, you should make sure that you only touch the base and not the glass. Grease deposits from fingerprints can cause a bulb to fail more quickly due to the heat. Please note that xenon bulbs may only be replaced by trained specialists due to the high voltage required to operate them."
Oils	Additives | Oils | Lubrication			"Liquid operating fluids are essential for everything to run smoothly in the car. Engine oil provides lubrication and cooling, brake fluid transfers the brake pedal force to the brake pistons and transmission oil enables smooth gear shifting. At kfzteile24 you can buy all of these fluids cheaply and conveniently online. As a specialist in the trade of car accessories and spare parts, our focus is on quality and we work with well-known brand manufacturers such as Castrol, Liqui Moly, Bosch or ATE. In addition to low prices, you can also expect fast delivery, because kfzteile24 usually ships ordered goods within 1-2 working days! The quick processing after the purchase also makes us a reliable partner for car workshops, breakdown services and petrol stations. Engine oil from Liqui Moly Why does a car need oil? Oil has numerous properties that are important in a combustion engine. The most important is its lubricating effect, which reduces wear and increases efficiency. Cooling and corrosion protection are also important tasks of engine oil. Lubrication Engine oil reduces friction between parts sliding against each other and is particularly relevant as a lubricating film in the cylinder. It enables the piston to move largely wear-free. Cooling Not all engine parts in a car can release heat directly into the coolant or the ambient air. Oil absorbs the heat and releases it again at a suitable location. Sealing The fine seal provided by the oil film between the piston rings and the cylinder wall should not be underestimated. This prevents hot gases from escaping from the combustion chamber. Cleaning Oil absorbs combustion residues, abrasion and deposits and carries them out of the engine. The unwanted particles are separated out at the oil filter so that they are no longer harmful. Corrosion protection Oil has a natural corrosion protection effect that is also used in the engine or transmission of a vehicle to ensure that the parts have a long service life. Noise reduction Closely linked to its lubricating properties, oil also dampens vibrations and therefore noise. This increases driving comfort for the driver and passengers. Changing the engine oil According to the manufacturer's instructions, the oil is usually changed annually. (Image: Love the wind @shutterstock.com) Since engine oil is subject to mechanical, thermal and, not least, chemical stress, it is subject to an aging process and must be changed at regular intervals. Suitable oil filters are able to remove particles such as dust, abrasion or combustion residues from the oil, but even the filter cannot prevent oxidation caused by so-called blow-by gases that are produced during combustion. The sludge formation of the oil caused by separated oil resins in combination with road dust, metal abrasion and combustion residues cannot be prevented in the long term.Oil can also thicken or thin if soot particles and strong oxidation make the oil more viscous, or if high-boiling components of the fuel get into the oil when the engine is cold and thus dilute it. Since a small amount of oil always burns in the cylinder, the oil level must be checked regularly and oil topped up if necessary. Which oil is the right one? Many vehicle owners ask themselves the question of the right oil for their car when it is time to change the oil. The brand of the oil can generally be ignored when making the choice, and the price is usually not a clear criterion for quality. Instead, concentrate on the SAE viscosity class, the API classification and the ACEA specification. Some vehicle manufacturers also specify their own criteria that the oil must meet. You can find this information either in the owner's manual or in the service booklet for your car. If you do not have access to this information, it is best to ask the manufacturer or use databases on the Internet. The wrong oil can cause engine damage. Since this is negligence, any guarantee is usually void. Why is viscosity so important? Viscosity is the flow resistance of a liquid, which is where the term ""thickness"" comes from. The viscosity has a significant influence on the flow behavior. Thin oils with low viscosity spread quickly and into all corners, while thick oils form a more stable lubricating film. Depending on the engine concept, one or the other may be better and only the manufacturer knows which properties the oil must have for the specific engine. Viscosity is therefore not a quality criterion for oil. In order for everything to run like clockwork, the oil must reach all moving parts and bearings and fulfill the functions mentioned above. However, the oil pressure must not be too high, otherwise the engine seals will be damaged. ""Over-pressurized"" seals cause oil to leak and pollute the environment. If you ignore the leak, you risk damaging the engine. What does the SAE viscosity class mean? SAE viscosity classes Engine oil min. viscosity at 100  C SAE 16 5.6 mm /s SAE 20 6.9 mm /s SAE 30 9.3 mm /s SAE 40 12.5 mm /s SAE 50 16.3 mm /s SAE 60 21.9 mm /s The SAE classification of the Society of Automotive Engineers has been awarded since 1911 and engine oil is classified according to the SAE J300 standard. The viscosity of the oil is measured in mm /s at 100 C. This value is significantly below the working temperatures in the engine and is only used for standardization. SAE winter classification engine oil lowest temperature SAE 0W -40 C SAE 5W -35 C SAE 10W -30 C SAE 15W -25 C SAE 20W -20 C SAE 25W -15 C Since all liquids become more viscous with decreasing temperature, but the oil must remain pumpable and flowable, the SAE J300 standard also specifies a maximum viscosity.This is particularly relevant in winter and in northern regions. The test can then determine the lowest temperature at which the oil still meets the conditions. The lower the value, the better the oil is suited to sub-zero temperatures."
Oils	Oils by vehicle type			"Oil is an important operating fluid in every combustion engine. It lubricates, cools, seals, protects against corrosion, cleans and even dampens vibrations and thus noise. The selection is huge and the requirements for engine oil vary from car to car. Of course, viscosity is one of the most important properties of an oil, but engine oils differ in many other ways. There are mineral oils and synthetic-based oils, which, depending on the engine concept, are supplemented with additives in order to optimally match the physical properties of the oil to the respective engine. kfzteile24 is a multiple award-winning test winner Pay attention to the manufacturer approvals When buying oil, you should make sure that the oil has the relevant approval from the vehicle manufacturer. This is the only way to be sure that the engine oil meets all operational requirements and lasts a long time. But even the best oil has to be changed at some point, as it is subject to chemical, mechanical and thermal stress and is subject to an aging process. Combustion residues and the smallest dust and abrasion particles are separated by the oil filter, which also has to be replaced when the oil is changed. When refilling, make sure not to use too much or too little oil. Therefore, check the oil dipstick until the oil level is between the minimum and maximum. Also start the engine and then wait a few minutes. This allows the oil filter to fill up and the engine oil to collect in the oil pan again after the engine has run."
Oils	Oils about viscosity			"Pay attention to viscosity and specifications when buying oil The demands on engine oil have increased steadily due to increasingly powerful engines and ever more delicate designs. Many car manufacturers therefore explicitly specify which oils can be used in each car. The large number of interest groups and historically grown conventions make the search for the right oil seem complex, especially for laypeople, but you should simply follow the manufacturer's specifications. The manufacturer determines the required flowability of the oil and thus the SAE viscosity class, which is specified as 0W-40 for the multi-grade oils commonly used today. Additional specifications according to ACEA or API and the manufacturer's own specifications must be observed when buying oil. Before ordering, make sure that the oil you want is approved for your vehicle. Our competent service team will of course be happy to help you. Can you mix engine oil? The large number of different oils raises the question of whether they can be mixed with one another. In general, it can be said that oil for the same engine concept can be mixed even if it has different performance characteristics. This even applies to synthetic and mineral oils. However, make sure that the performance characteristics of the oil specified by the vehicle manufacturer are not undercut. You can therefore top up with higher quality oils without hesitation. However, as oil ages through stress and the additives also break down over time, regular oil changes (including oil filter) are essential, so the entire oil is usually replaced. Popular engine oil 10W-40 5W-30 5W-40 Multigrade oils differ in their SAE classification (Society of Automotive Engineers) based on the SAE J300 standard. The first value indicates the lowest temperature down to which the oil remains pumpable and flowable. 5W corresponds to -35  C, 10W means -30  C. The second value indicates the viscosity in mm /s at 100  C. However, the values ??determined are only for standardization purposes, as the actual engine temperature is significantly higher. The higher the viscosity of an oil, the more stable the lubricating film is, but its flowability decreases. Engine oil from Castrol How to change your engine oil Oil is subject to a natural aging process, as it is subjected to high thermal, mechanical and chemical stress. As combustion residues, dust and abrasion particles also contaminate the filters, the oil and filter are usually changed together. In a video, the professional mechanics from kfzteile24 demonstrate how to change the oil. Please note that the engine oil can only be changed in suitable places, as no oil must be released into the environment. The used oil removed must also be properly disposed of as hazardous goods."
Oils	Oils about viscosity	Cars & Vans	Gear oils	"Gear oil as an important lubricant Most drivers are aware that the engine oil must be changed regularly, but what about the gearbox oil? The basic answer is: Gear oil also wears out and must be changed. This applies even if the gearbox has been given a so-called lifetime filling by the manufacturer, which usually means six to eight years. If you drive the car for a longer period of time and do not want to risk gearbox damage, a gearbox oil change is necessary. Gear oil in brief Gear oil protects the gearbox from wear and serves to cool it. It also prevents corrosion and enables easy gear changes in variable transmissions. Gear oil must be compatible with seals and shear-stable with good load-bearing capacity. It must also not foam and should prevent pitting. When buying gearbox oil, make sure that the lubricant complies with the manufacturer's specifications. Function of gearbox oil Like all lubricants, gearbox oil also prevents wear, which occurs particularly in interlocking machine parts. A protective layer is formed that prevents abrasion and at the same time dissipates the heat generated. Wear protection is particularly relevant for hypoid gears (usually axle gears), because the crossing shafts with a large axle offset can cause the lubricating film to be pressed away. The oil also prevents corrosion and thus offers protection against aging for the gear. Finally, gear oil ensures that the gear shifting processes of a change gear can be carried out as easily and quickly as possible. Classification of gear oil Gear oil is usually classified according to the standards of the American Petroleum Institute (API) and divided into levels GL-1 to GL-5. The abbreviation GL stands for ""gear lubricant"" and enables quick classification, because it is based on the requirements and loads to which the oil is exposed. An API GL-5 gear oil is therefore particularly suitable for axle gears, which are subject to special loads due to their hypoid gearing, while classes GL-3 and GL-4 are important in normal manual transmissions. In addition to the API classification, gear oils can also be classified according to their SAE viscosity. However, this should not be confused with the SAE classes for engine oil. For example, an SAE 80 gear oil is roughly equivalent to an SAE 20 engine oil. Low-friction gear oils contain additives that change the friction value, which are intended to make the oil particularly smooth and ensure that gear shifts can be carried out smoothly even at low temperatures. Smooth-running gears also result in lower fuel consumption. When changing the gear oil, follow the manufacturer's instructions, as the use of supposedly higher-quality oils is not recommended.The result could be slipping synchronizer rings due to insufficient friction. If a transmission oil with a lower rating is selected, wear will inevitably increase. This can lead to the formation of pitting, for example. Transmission oil for automatic transmissions (ATF oils) The term ATF transmission oil is used as an abbreviation for Automatic Transmission Fluid and describes oils which, among other things, ensure the transmission of torque between the pump and turbine wheel of a converter. These automatic transmission oils cover a high viscosity index over a wide temperature range. ATF oils are also not standardized but are defined based on manufacturer specifications, e.g. Mercon from Ford or the various approvals from VW and BMW. Transmission oil from Castrol Transmission oil from f.becker line Changing the transmission oil The transmission oil should be changed by a specialist workshop, with two different procedures being common. The cheaper method involves draining the old transmission oil and replacing it with new one. Due to the complex structure of the gearbox, up to 50% of the worn-out old oil can remain in the gearbox with this method. Removing the gearbox is more thorough, but also more time-consuming and expensive. The old gearbox oil is completely removed and the lines are blown out with compressed air. Despite the considerable costs, the procedure is usually cheaper than a new gearbox."
Oils	Oils about viscosity	Motorcycle & Scooter		"As with cars, oil is an irreplaceable operating fluid for motorcycles and scooters that must be changed at regular intervals. Since the two-wheelers are also powered by combustion engines, the oil also fulfils a similar function. It must lubricate, cool, seal, sometimes transmit power and protect against corrosion. It also absorbs combustion residues to reduce wear. Mineral motorcycle oil from f.becker line Castrol Power 1 What should you consider when buying oil for your motorcycle? The most important purchase criterion when buying motorcycle oil is the SAE viscosity. The viscosity is determined under standard conditions so that the flow behavior is maintained in a certain temperature range. More viscous oils form a more stable lubricating film, but spread less well in cold temperatures. Depending on the engine concept of the motorcycle, the requirements for the oil can therefore differ. For this reason, it is important to observe the manufacturer's specifications when buying motorcycle oil. The SAE 10W-40 requirement is, by the way, widespread for motorcycles. Castrol 2T Other specifications and additives If the SAE viscosity is selected, you should look at other specifications such as the API classification. However, it is designed for car engines, so the Japan Automobile Standards Organization is usually more relevant for motorcycles. The JASO classification ensures, for example, that the clutch, which usually runs in an oil bath, does not have problems with the oil and can run with little wear. The JASO requirements also specify how high the proportion of sulfated ash can be. Calcium, magnesium, boron, zinc, phosphorus, molybdenum and sulfur are used as additives, which change the properties in the milligram range per kilogram of oil. They serve as wear protection or foam inhibitors and also interact with each other. The development of a suitable motor oil is therefore complex and expensive. Fully synthetic, partially synthetic or mineral? Regardless of the oil, the basic material is always simple petroleum. Mineral in this context means that the molecular structure of the hydrocarbon compounds has not been artificially adjusted. However, the oil becomes synthetic when the hydrocarbon compounds have been changed in a refinery. This also allows the properties of the oil to be adjusted. If this synthetic oil is mixed with mineral oil, it is called a semi-synthetic oil. However, the quality or suitability for the motorcycle cannot be determined from this."
Oils	Oils about viscosity	Motorcycle & Scooter	Gear oils	"The increasing complexity of modern technology is also affecting manual transmissions for motorcycles, and so ever better transmission oils are needed to ensure low-wear and efficient operation. The oil acts as a lubricant and prevents the mechanics from overheating. As a result, the motorcycle's gears can be shifted smoothly and without noise at any time. We offer manual transmission oil for motorcycles in two different SAE classes and API specifications. When buying the oil, make sure which transmission oil is intended for your motorcycle or scooter. After all, the oil is optimized for the high demands of the transmission. Have the oil changed by an experienced specialist workshop, because the used oil must then be disposed of. Manual transmission oil for motorcycles from Castrol When should the transmission oil be changed? A transmission oil is a long-lasting special oil that, depending on the manufacturer, should even last the entire service life of the transmission. However, you should not take this promise for granted and keep an eye on the transmission oil as part of regular inspections. The oil should often be changed after about 80,000 kilometers. Since the abrasion or wear in the gearbox is usually at its highest after purchase, the oil should be monitored particularly closely in the first two years. The oil is changed either by simply draining the old oil or by flushing the gearbox, where all the oil and any deposits are removed from the gearbox using pressure. This method is a little more complex, but also more thorough."
Oils	brake fluid			"Brake fluid is one of the essential operating materials in a car. Its function is to transmit the braking force initiated by the driver to all of the vehicle's service brakes. These can be disc brakes or drum brakes. As with any hydraulic solution, the brake fluid is compressed, which allows forces to be transferred and act on the wheel cylinders or brake pistons. As a rule, however, the braking force on the four wheels is not only determined by the driver, but is also monitored and controlled by electronic systems such as anti-lock braking systems. The ABS measures the slip of a wheel in comparison to the other wheels and can release brake fluid through appropriate valves, thereby reducing the brake pressure. The brake fluid is collected and pumped back into the brake fluid reservoir. DOT 4 brake fluid from ATE DOT 5.1 brake fluid Brake fluid requirements Brake fluid must have numerous characteristics, the boiling point being the most important. A distinction is made between the dry boiling point and the wet boiling point, with the former always being higher. The background is that the dry boiling point indicates the temperature at which the pure brake fluid changes to a gaseous state. However, this value drops during use because water penetrates the brake system through the brake hoses and at the connection points. Brake fluid is highly hygroscopic and ""waters down"" over time. As a rule, the wet boiling point is not reached when the water content is 3 to 3.5 percent and the brake fluid must be replaced to avoid vapor bubbles forming. Depending on the performance of the car and the expected loads, the appropriate brake fluid must be used. They differ according to their classification by the American Department of Transportation (DOT). Can brake fluid be mixed? A higher quality brake fluid, e.g. DOT-5.1, can generally be mixed with a brake fluid with a lower boiling point, but you should note that DOT-5 brake fluid is silicone-based. It is mainly found in American vehicles and must not be mixed with DOT-3, DOT-4 or DOT-5.1. If you want to avoid problems, you should simply follow the vehicle manufacturer's instructions; after all, the viscosity of the brake fluid can also be important in order not to damage the vehicle dynamics control systems."
Oils	Additive			"Additives in cars are substances that are added to oils, fuel or coolant in order to change the respective properties of the base material. The adjustment highlights positive characteristics and suppresses negative ones. In this way, the nature of the material can be optimally adapted to the respective requirements. In contrast to fillers, additives are usually only used in small quantities, the proportion of which can be in the range of 1% - 25%. The chemical additives are usually in dissolved form and are surface-active, i.e. they react with water or acids. Diesel additive from Presto Ru -Stop from Liqui Moly Typical additives for engine oil Engine oil and transmission oil are of crucial importance for the operation of a car due to their lubricating effect, but the base oil does not meet the various requirements. For example, transmission oils require a minimum coefficient of friction if they are used in synchronized transmissions, automatic transmissions or limited-slip differentials. Friction modifiers allow the oil to be optimally adapted to its place of use. Antioxidants, on the other hand, are intended to delay the aging process of the oil by preventing the oxygen reaction when heated. At the same time, they form a protective film that protects the metal parts of an engine from corrosion. The pour point of an oil or the lubricating properties at particularly high pressure can also be improved by additives. Radiator seal from Sonax Additives for the coolant While engine oil is often enriched with additives by the manufacturers, the coolant usually consists only of water and antifreeze. However, antifreeze usually also contains additives that counteract corrosion, for example. Additional additives can also be purchased that act as a radiator seal, for example. They seal small hairline cracks and holes caused by stone chips, which can prevent gradual coolant loss. Other additives for the car The additives available on the market are as varied as the problems they promise to solve. There are flow additives for diesel fuels for cold winter days or racing additives that are intended to remove deposits on valves, spark plugs and in the combustion chamber, thereby optimizing combustion and increasing performance. In general, however, additives are more effective when used preventively than when a problem occurs, as these remedies cannot work miracles. However, as they are inexpensive, it doesn't hurt to try them out before considering replacing the affected parts."
Care products	Care products | Maintenance products			"Tips for cleaning your car Since regular car washing is not just for the looks, but also maintains the value of the car, we have put together some useful tips and tricks on the subject of car care. First of all, you should plan some time and prepare properly. A thorough and gentle wash can take time, the wrong cleaning products can cause damage and, finally, you need a suitable parking space for the vehicle. It is important to ensure that the groundwater is not polluted. Anyone who simply washes their car outside or on their own property risks heavy fines. Some municipalities do not even allow the car to be washed with pure water. So our tip: save yourself the hassle and book a space in a self-service car wash. You should also make sure that you do not wash the vehicle in the blazing sun, even if the weather is nice and invites you to clean the car. Tips for manual car washing (outside) You need two large buckets of water, a car sponge for lathering, two microfiber washing gloves and two microfiber drying towels. A high-pressure cleaner and foam gun make the work easier, but are not absolutely necessary. Finally, you should have moisturizing car shampoo, rim cleaner and cleaning clay with you. Washing your car by hand ? first step: pre-cleaning The first step in every car cleaning should be the pre-wash, where coarse dirt and impurities are removed. Start by lathering the dry vehicle thoroughly and make sure to work from top to bottom. This two-zone technique can prevent coarse dirt from the lower part of the car from rising up and possibly scratching the paintwork. When lathering, use a car sponge instead of a foam gun, then simply squeeze it out and let the foam run onto the car. Please do not rub the vehicle yet. Now let the foam soak in according to the manufacturer's instructions and then spray it off from top to bottom with the loosened dirt. If you use a high-pressure cleaner, you must exercise caution. The rule of thumb for the distance is that the jet should not hurt you, because then it is also safe for the paintwork. Stubborn dirt such as tar, bird droppings or insect remains should be sprayed with a suitable pre-cleaner beforehand. Allow this to take effect and then remove the dirt with the paint putty - do not scrape it off! Now spray the rims with a rim cleaner spray, working on each rim separately. This is laborious, but it prevents the exposure time from being exceeded and damage or stains from occurring. A little tip: if you turn the wheel half the length of the wheel at a time, the spray is distributed better and achieves optimal results.Rinse and continue with the hand wash. Pre-clean the car with a sponge Image: Extreme-Photographer @istockphoto.com Car washing by hand - second step: Hand washing Continue to follow the two-zone technique and start the hand wash in the upper part of the car. To further minimize the risk of applying dirt particles when cleaning, use two separate wash gloves for the top and bottom as well as two buckets. One bucket is for wringing out the wash glove and the other contains the water with the cleaner. You should also regularly empty the waste water bucket and replace it with fresh water. This way you can keep the risk of scratches under control. Then rinse everything from top to bottom. Make sure that no limescale marks are created by drying water. Car washing by hand - third step: Paint putty for professionals Even after a thorough pre-cleaning and hand washing, there are still particles on the paint that can damage the surface of the paint when rubbed dry. If you want to be on the safe side, use paint putty. The synthetic material absorbs even the last traces of dirt and ensures a completely clean surface. The paint putty is used with a detailer for putty as a lubricant to avoid friction and protect the paint. Washing the car by hand - fourth step: drying To dry the car, use the two-zone technique again and it is best to use two microfiber drying towels. These are particularly absorbent. Special detailers ensure the right shine. Spread these over the wet vehicle according to the manufacturer's instructions and then wipe them off. The so-called holograms can be avoided if you wipe the already dry vehicle again with the other side of the microfiber towel after drying. Drying seems like a lot of work overall, but is definitely preferable to simply air drying or driving dry, as no water marks form. Overview of tips for washing your car: only use suitable care products (microfiber cloths, wash gloves, car shampoo, rim spray, cleaning clay) and no other cleaning utensils (brushes, washing-up liquid). Use the two-zone technique and always clean the car from top to bottom. Always check wash gloves and microfiber cloths for dirt and remove any that may be present. Do not work in direct sunlight or in windy conditions (dust problem). Use little pressure during any work step. DO NOT scrape off stubborn dirt, but rather soak it with a suitable product and remove it with paint clay. Guide to interior care - how to clean the inside of your car properly. Car care, interior and dashboard. Image: deepblue4you @istockphoto.com If you decide to thoroughly clean the interior of your car, you will need not only the appropriate cleaning utensils but above all time.Plan at least half a day so that you don't put yourself under pressure. A suitable parking space is also important. It should be dry, offer enough space and have a water connection and sockets for the vacuum cleaner. Many washing bays at petrol stations and car washes also have vacuum cleaners installed. However, experience shows that in spring and summer, especially on nice days, the spaces are very popular. So reserve the space in advance if necessary. Interior care - Step 1: Preparation Before you start with the actual interior cleaning, you should empty the car. Floor mats, blankets, inserts and covers are removed and stored in a dry place outside the car. Also put away accessories that are no longer needed. This includes snow chains or antifreeze, which are only useful in winter. Any bike racks or roof boxes from your last vacation should also be stored in the garage so that you don't have unnecessary ballast driving around. Next, clean: beat the floor mats thoroughly from a good distance so that the dirt does not settle on the paint. Depending on the material, you can wash covers and blankets or simply wipe them off with water. Interior care begins with emptying the trunk. Image: lovro77 @istockphoto.com Interior care - Step 2: Vacuuming Vacuum the entire vehicle once with the vacuum cleaner. Start on one side and remove coarse dirt from all surfaces, upholstery, cracks and joints. Be careful not to leave any scratches in the plastic surfaces with the vacuum cleaner. Repeat the process on the other side before you turn your attention to the trunk. Remove the carpet and the spare wheel. Dirt often collects in the recess, which is also vacuumed out. Stubborn dirt can then be removed with a cloth and soapy water. Dry everything thoroughly before you put the carpet or the trim back in so that no mold can form. Interior care - Step 3: Dog hair Four-legged friends are often part of the family, but depending on the breed, transporting them in the car can be a hairy affair. A normal vacuum cleaner won't get you anywhere. You can either use gloves with rubber nubs or special brushes that can easily remove animal hair from textile surfaces. Cleaning is then simply done under running water. Rotating vacuum cleaner brushes can also solve the hair problem. Interior care - Step 4: Dashboard Water and a cloth or sponge are usually sufficient for the dashboard. If you decide to use a cockpit care product or cockpit spray, you should make sure that it is suitable for your surface. Some of the cleaners are also perfumed,Therefore, ideally, you should sniff it beforehand to avoid unpleasant surprises. It is simply applied and then wiped off with a microfiber cloth. Avoid spraying the airbags directly so that the predetermined breaking points are not affected. Interior care - Step 5: Vehicle roof The car roof is usually only carefully vacuumed and treated with a cleaning foam depending on the degree of dirt. Depending on the material, you should avoid too much water or strong pressure so that the roof does not wrinkle or come off. Stubborn stains can be treated with a stain remover, but avoid over-stressing the material. To prevent contamination from occurring in the first place, you should stop smoking in the car completely if possible. Interior care - Step 6: Mirrors and windows Clear vision is not only good for your well-being, it is also important for safety. For streak-free cleanliness, you need a window cleaner. It is sprayed onto the windows and should be allowed to work for a little if necessary. The film is then removed with a squeegee and a cloth. Finally, rub with a dry cloth. Newspaper is not suitable for this and leaves unsightly streaks. We recommend starting with the windscreen, which is much easier to reach from the passenger seat. Continue working on the side windows and clean the edges as well. Lastly, it's the rear window, which may have heating wires as a special feature. To avoid damaging these, you must only work lengthways. Window cleaner from Sonax Interior care - Step 7: Seats and upholstery Once the rest of the vehicle is clean, it's time to tackle the dirt in the seats and upholstery. Special upholstery cleaners are applied as a foam and worked in with a damp sponge. Use little water, as the seats must be allowed to dry completely so that no mold forms. After the agent has been allowed to work for a few minutes, it is vacuumed up with a wet/dry vacuum cleaner. You can rent these devices from many car washes or hardware stores and supermarkets. Stubborn dirt such as chocolate stains or grease or oil residues from sun cream can be removed with a suitable stain remover. Then dab the area with an absorbent microfiber cloth and avoid rubbing so that the dirt does not work deeper into the upholstery. Household remedies such as ice spray are suitable for any chewing gum residue. The solid mass can be picked out of the upholstery with a little patience. Interior care - Step 8: Leather seats Leather is first brushed off and wiped with a slightly damp cloth. As a rule, you should avoid cleaning agents and only use special cleaning foam for leather. Then rub the leather seats completely dry.to avoid stains when applying the care products. The care lotion protects the leather from drying out and keeps it supple so that no cracks form. It is applied over a large area with a sponge. If your seats are covered with particularly light-colored leather, it is advisable to test the care lotion on an inconspicuous area beforehand to check for any color changes. Leather care for car seats Interior care - last step: prevention Not all dirt in the interior of a car can be avoided, but eating, drinking and smoking in particular are responsible for major contamination. So try to avoid these in the car. For example, a spilled Coke not only leaves stains, it can even attract vermin. Deep-seated cigarette smoke also significantly reduces the resale value of the vehicle. If you have a change of shoes for the car in winter or replace your floor mats with rubber mats, you are also tackling dirt problems directly at the root of the problem."
Care products	Exterior & Paint	polish	Polishing machine	"Do you want to polish your car without having to go to a workshop every time? No problem: with a polishing machine you can simply polish the paint yourself. It can also be financially worthwhile, especially if you use it several times. We will explain here why you should polish your car regularly, how to find a good polishing machine and how DIY polishing actually works. Why you should polish your car at all Polishing your car - do I even have to do it? Answer: A clear yes and no. Of course, no one is obliged to polish their vehicle. But: If you look after your car and want to keep it in the best possible condition, you should polish it at regular intervals. Why? It's very simple: when you polish, the top, weathered layer of paint is removed and a new layer underneath is revealed. This not only gives the paint a new shine - polishing also offers a number of other advantages: For example, it removes small scratches, prevents rust formation and prevents chemical burns from bird droppings. All of this naturally contributes to an improved condition - and thus to maintaining the value of your vehicle! Polishing your vehicle: These are the advantages! Remove scratches and scrapes: Small damage to the paint can often be easily polished out with a polishing machine. Prevent rust formation: Regular polishing prevents rust formation. Protection against bird droppings: Freshly polished paint is less susceptible to chemical burns from bird droppings. Maintain the value of your vehicle: When you polish your vehicle, you are contributing to a good condition and thus to maintaining its value! Polished paint is more robust and durable overall: Weather and environmental influences have less of an impact on it. Buying a polishing machine: Which polishing machine is the best? If you want to buy a polishing machine, you should first know what type of polishing machine you need: A distinction is made between rotary polishing machines and eccentric polishing machines. In addition, speed, power, power supply, volume, handling and the features of the machine play a role. Rotary polishing machine or eccentric polishing machine? There are basically two types of polishing machines for cars: rotary polishing machines and eccentric polishing machines. But what exactly is the difference? While rotary polishing machines work with fast, rotating movements, eccentric polishing machines also swing back and forth on their own axis and in circular movements on the paint. This is intended to imitate the movement of the human hand. Rotary polishing machines and eccentric polishing machines compared: Rotary polishing machine Eccentric polishing machine Advantages Rotary polishing machines work with very fast rotating movements that quickly remove a large amount of paint.The polishing process is therefore also faster than with an eccentric polishing machine. Eccentric polishing machines are also well suited for beginners. Even inexperienced users can achieve good polishing results with an eccentric polishing machine. The risk of damaging the paint when polishing is lower with an eccentric polishing machine. Disadvantages A little difficult to use for beginners: The fast rotating movements can quickly remove the paint down to the primer. Rotary polishing machines are therefore more suitable for professionals. Polishing with an eccentric polishing machine takes a little longer than with a rotary polishing machine. Polishing machine for beginners Even as a beginner, you can usually polish your car yourself without any problems - but you should best use an eccentric polishing machine. In principle, you can hardly go wrong with an eccentric polishing machine. The risk of damaging your vehicle is extremely low. Further purchase criteria for buying a polishing machine If you want to buy a polishing machine, you should also pay attention to the following things: The power: In order to be able to polish consistently at the same speed, a rotary polishing machine should have a power of at least 1200 watts. An eccentric machine should have at least 300 watts. The speed: The faster the movements, the higher the temperature - and the faster the polishing process. When it comes to the speed, it is important that it can be adjusted (ideally continuously). This way, beginners can carefully work their way towards proper polishing. The volume: Polishing an entire car usually takes several hours. Therefore, you should also pay attention to the volume of the machine. The volume level should ideally be well below 85 decibels. This way you protect your hearing and that of your neighbors. The power supply: Polishing machine with cable or battery? With the former, you should make sure that the cable is long enough. Polishing machines with batteries are more practical to use - but you also have to remember to charge the battery before polishing. Handling: Polishing your own vehicle can take a while. Therefore, when buying a polishing machine, you should make sure that it fits well in your hand. An ergonomically shaped, rubberized handle contributes to improved handling. There are also machines with two handles. These can be held more securely and with more control. In order to be able to work comfortably, the polishing machine should also not weigh more than 2.5 kg. The equipment or scope of delivery: Pay attention to what is supplied with your polishing machine. Battery or cable, polishing sponges, polishing pads, ideally a polish? Although you can order all accessories later, you can sometimes save money if you buy a ready-made set. Polishing paint with a polishing machine: Here's how!Polishing your own car yourself is not difficult with a polishing machine. Nevertheless, you should pay attention to a few basic things to avoid paint damage: This is what you need for polishing: To get started with polishing, you need the following: A polishing machine One or more polishes Polishing pads that are attached to the polishing machine If necessary, a microfiber cloth There are coarser and finer polishes. For coarse polishes, it is best to use a coarser polishing pad. For finer polishes, you use finer polishing pads. With the microfiber cloth, you can remove the remains of the polish after each polishing step. When using the microfiber cloth, make sure that it is suitable for high-gloss paint. Polishing your car: step by step Polishing your own car yourself is not complicated. If you follow our 5 steps, hardly anything can go wrong. Here's how to do it: Prepare the surface: Before you can start polishing, you should wash your car thoroughly. You can also do this in the car wash. However, check your vehicle thoroughly again after the washing program: areas that have not been properly cleaned should be cleaned again by hand. Prepare the polishing machine: attach the polishing pad to the polishing machine and apply 4-5 pea-sized dots of polish to it. Start polishing: place the polishing machine on the vehicle and start with the lowest setting. Work on the paint in a cross-stroke: this means that you start at the top left, for example, and move the polishing machine in a straight line to the top right corner. Then you basically go over the paint ""line by line"". From left to right, then from right to left - and so on. To achieve the best possible result, the individual strokes should overlap by about 50%. Remove residue: after polishing, you can remove the remaining polish with the microfiber cloth. Tips & tricks for polishing your car: How to do DIY polishing To achieve the best possible results when polishing your car, here are the best tips and tricks to ensure your polish is perfect: It is best to always polish in the shade and not in the middle of summer: If the temperature is too warm, the paint is softer and can be damaged more quickly. Before polishing, you should clean your vehicle thoroughly. The paint must be free of dirt before polishing. Have you never polished a car before? Then it is better to choose an eccentric polishing machine. In contrast to rotary polishing machines, eccentric polishing machines are easier to use. The risk of paint damage when polishing is significantly lower with an eccentric polishing machine. Hold the polishing machine straight: If you hold the machine at an angle, you may remove too much paint when polishing. Apply a sealant after polishing. This way you can enjoy your freshly polished paint for as long as possible.After each part you have polished, you should remove any polish residue. Don't wait until the whole car is finished to remove the residue: otherwise the polish could dry and leave unsightly residue."
Care products	Exterior & Paint	polish	Cordless polishing machine	"Would you like to polish your vehicle yourself - and ideally without a bothersome cable? No problem: there are of course also polishing machines with a battery. These are particularly easy to use: There are no annoying cables in the way - and you are not constantly dependent on a power socket nearby. Polishing your car: This is why it makes sense Polishing your car regularly is not a must. However, it does help to improve the condition of the vehicle and thus maintain the value of the car. Polishing removes the top layer of paint. This reveals an underlying layer. This allows you to remove small scratches and scrapes. Polishing also makes the paint more robust and less susceptible to burns from bird droppings, for example. And polishing also prevents rust formation. Buying a polishing machine with a battery: What should you look out for when buying? To ensure that you can enjoy your polishing machine for as long as possible, you should pay attention to a few basic factors when buying: eccentric polishing machine or rotary polishing machine? If you want to buy a cordless polishing machine, you should first choose between an eccentric polishing machine and a rotary polishing machine: The rotary polishing machine polishes extremely quickly. This has the advantage that the polishing process is much quicker than with an eccentric polishing machine. However, a rotary polishing machine is hardly suitable for beginners. It polishes so quickly that you have to be careful not to polish down to the primer or even the sheet metal. Rotary polishing machines are therefore more likely to be used by professionals. Eccentric polishing machines, on the other hand, are also suitable for beginners. They not only rotate on their own axis, but also back and forth in circular movements. This imitates the movement of the human hand when polishing manually. Eccentric polishing machines are much easier to use for beginners. There is hardly any risk of polishing down to the primer. Even without previous experience, you can achieve very good results with an eccentric polishing machine. Purchase criteria: How to find a good polishing machine with a battery In addition to choosing between an eccentric polishing machine or a rotary polishing machine, there are other criteria that you should consider when buying a polishing machine: The power: If the polishing machine has too little power, it will stop even with little pressure. An eccentric polishing machine should therefore have at least 300 watts, a rotary polishing machine at least 1200 watts. Ideally, the speed can be adjusted continuously. This way you can start with a slow speed and then gradually increase it. The battery life should of course be as long as possible. The longer the battery life, the more time you have for the polishing process. A short charging time also ensures thatthat you can continue polishing as quickly as possible. For easy handling, the diameter of the plates should not be larger than 150 mm. Pay attention to the volume: A polishing process like this can take several hours. The quieter the polishing machine, the better for your hearing - and also for that of your neighbors. Cordless polishing machine: The advantages and disadvantages A cordless polishing machine has advantages and disadvantages. We have summarized them for you here: Advantages Disadvantages Complete freedom of movement: No annoying cable that hinders you while you work. You are not dependent on a power source and can also polish when there is no socket. Your working radius is not dependent on the length of the cable. The battery has to be charged - and that can take a while: Spontaneous polishing can therefore be a little difficult here. Some models only have a short battery life. Whether you choose a cordless polishing machine or not depends primarily on your personal preferences. And of course also on your work environment: If, for example, you want to polish your vehicle in a place where there are no power sockets, a cordless polishing machine is of course the first choice. If you always have a power socket nearby, a cable does not bother you when you work and you do not want to be dependent on the battery life of your polishing machine, you should choose a corded polishing machine. Polishing your car yourself with a polishing machine: Here's how it works With a cordless polishing machine, you can easily polish your vehicle yourself and save yourself expensive workshop bills. You can hardly go wrong when polishing. We explain exactly how DIY polishing works here: This is what you need for polishing: Polishing machine Polish(s): Usually you use several polishes one after the other. Polishing pads: Here too, you usually use several. First a coarser polishing pad and then a fine pad for the finish Microfiber cloth This is how you can polish your car yourself step by step Before you start polishing, you have to clean your car thoroughly. If you go to a car wash, you should do a final touch-up by hand afterwards. The car wash usually doesn't get 100% clean. It's best to clean stubborn dirt manually again. When the vehicle is clean, you can continue preparing the polishing machine. To do this, put a pad on the machine and apply 4-5 dots of polish to it. Press the polishing machine against the car with light pressure and start at a low speed. It's best to start polishing at the top left and pull the polishing machine straight up to the top right. Then a little deeper from right to left - and so on. Make sure that the individual polishing strips overlap by about half.to achieve an optimal result. When you feel confident, you can slowly increase the speed. Remove the polish residue with the microfiber cloth. Do this regularly in between - and not only when the whole car has been polished. The polish dries very quickly and can leave unsightly residue. Tips & tricks for polishing your car: This is how you can definitely achieve a DIY polish Finally, we would like to share with you our most useful tips on polishing. This is how you achieve an optimal result: Use a microfiber cloth that is specially designed for high-gloss paint (not a conventional household cloth). With a seal at the end, you can enjoy your freshly polished car for a long time. Hold the polishing machine straight to achieve an even result. Do not polish in the blazing sun or on hot summer days. This is when the paint is very soft and you can quickly damage it when polishing. As a beginner, it is best to use an eccentric polishing machine."
Care products	Exterior & Paint	polish	Eccentric polishing machine	"With an eccentric polishing machine, you can easily polish your car yourself and don't have to go to a workshop. In contrast to the rotary polishing machine, the eccentric polishing machine is also ideal for beginners. You can hardly go wrong when using it. We explain here how you can polish your car yourself with an eccentric polishing machine and what you should consider when buying an eccentric polishing machine. Why should I polish my car? If you look after your car, you polish it regularly. Why? It's very simple: polishing removes a little of the paint and a new, lower layer of paint appears. This not only makes the paint shine beautifully, but polishing also has other advantages: Remove scratches: Small scratches can be easily polished out with a polishing machine. Protect paint: The paint becomes less sensitive overall and also less susceptible to rust. Maintain value: All in all, polishing contributes to a good condition - and helps you to keep the value of the vehicle stable. The eccentric polishing machine offers these advantages Why an eccentric polishing machine? Essentially, a distinction is made between eccentric polishing machines and rotary polishing machines. But the eccentric polishing machine offers one significant advantage over a rotary polishing machine: it is easy to use and the risk of damaging the paint is extremely low. A rotary polishing machine circles over the paint in quick, rotating movements. It is only recommended for professionals - because you can quickly polish the paint down to the primer or even the metal. With an eccentric polishing machine, this cannot happen so quickly: the machine performs eccentric movements - hence the name. This means that in addition to rotating around its own axis, it swings back and forth in circular movements. This is intended to imitate manual polishing by hand. Eccentric polishing machines are very easy to use. The likelihood of causing paint damage is very low. Therefore, even beginners can polish their car themselves with an eccentric polishing machine without any risk. Buy an eccentric polishing machine: What you should pay attention to If you want to buy an eccentric polishing machine, you should consider the following criteria: Size of the polishing plate: Ideally, the diameter of the polishing plate should not be more than 150 mm. If the polishing plate is larger, it is a little harder to handle. The weight of the polishing machine: To avoid polishing being too strenuous, the eccentric polishing machine should not weigh more than 2.5 kg. The speed: Ideally, the speed is variably adjustable. This way, you can start with a low speed and work your way up slowly. The length of the cable: The cable should definitely be long enough,so that you don't have to keep unplugging it when polishing. 4 meters or more is ideal here. The power: If the power is too weak, the polishing machine will stop even with little pressure. Therefore, an eccentric polishing machine should have at least 300 watts. Polishing a vehicle: How to do it with the eccentric polishing machine With the eccentric polishing machine, you can polish your car yourself without having to worry about damaging the paint. The eccentric polishing machine is particularly suitable for beginners. This is what you need to polish your vehicle: To polish your car yourself, you need the following: Eccentric polishing machine Polishing pads Polish (at least one, usually you use several one after the other) Microfiber cloth (make sure that you don't use a cheap household cloth but one that is suitable for high-gloss paint) Step by step: Polishing paint with the eccentric polishing machine Polishing a car yourself is no problem with the eccentric polishing machine and is pretty straightforward. To ensure that the polishing process runs smoothly, it is best to follow these 5 steps: Wash the car thoroughly! You can also drive to a car wash, but you should also do some hand work here. Even in a car wash, the vehicle will not be 100% clean. It is best to clean areas that are still dirty by hand. Now you can prepare the polishing machine: To do this, put the polishing pad on and spread 4-5 drops of polish on it. Now you can start polishing and place the polishing machine on the paint with light pressure. It is best to polish in a cross-stroke. This means that you start at the top left and pull the polishing machine in a straight line to the top right. Then you go one level lower and polish from right to left - and so on. The individual polishing strokes should overlap by about 50%. When you have finished polishing a part, it is best to take a short break and remove the remains of the polish. Don't wait until you have finished with the entire car. The polish could then dry out and leave unsightly residue. Make sure that you hold the polishing machine straight during the polishing process. For optimal results and long durability, you can apply a sealant after polishing. Eccentric polishing machine - the most important points in summary An eccentric polishing machine is easy to use and low-risk, even for beginners. Regular polishing contributes to an improved condition and helps to keep the vehicle's value stable. You can also easily remove even small scratches. You should clean your vehicle thoroughly before polishing. A sealant at the end protects the paint and contributes to a long durability.the polishing machine stops even with low pressure. Therefore, an eccentric polishing machine should have at least 300 watts. Polishing a vehicle: This is how it works with the eccentric polishing machine With the eccentric polishing machine you can polish your car yourself without having to worry about damaging the paint. The eccentric polishing machine is particularly suitable for beginners. This is what you need to polish your vehicle: To polish your car yourself, you need the following: Eccentric polishing machine Polishing pads Polish (at least one, usually you use several one after the other) Microfiber cloth (make sure that you don't use a cheap household cloth but one that is suitable for high-gloss paint) Step by step: Polishing paint with the eccentric polishing machine Polishing a car yourself is no problem with the eccentric polishing machine and is pretty straightforward. To ensure that the polishing process runs smoothly, it is best to follow these 5 steps: Wash the car thoroughly! You can also go to a car wash, but you should do the finishing by hand. Even in a car wash, the vehicle will not be 100% clean. It is best to clean any areas that are still dirty by hand. Now you can prepare the polishing machine: Put the polishing pad on and spread 4-5 drops of polish on it. Now you can start polishing and place the polishing machine on the paint with light pressure. It is best to polish in a cross-stroke pattern. This means that you start at the top left and pull the polishing machine in a straight line to the top right. Then you go one level lower and polish from right to left - and so on. The individual polishing strokes should overlap by about 50%. When you have finished polishing a part, it is best to take a short break and remove the rest of the polish. Don't wait until you have finished with the entire car. The polish could then dry and leave unsightly residue. Make sure that you hold the polishing machine straight during the polishing process. For optimal results and long durability, you can apply a sealant after polishing. Eccentric polishing machine - the most important points in summary An eccentric polishing machine is easy to use and low-risk, even for beginners. Regular polishing contributes to an improved condition and helps to keep the vehicle's value stable. You can also easily remove even small scratches. You should clean your vehicle thoroughly before polishing. A sealant at the end protects the paint and contributes to a long durability.the polishing machine stops even with low pressure. Therefore, an eccentric polishing machine should have at least 300 watts. Polishing a vehicle: This is how it works with the eccentric polishing machine With the eccentric polishing machine you can polish your car yourself without having to worry about damaging the paint. The eccentric polishing machine is particularly suitable for beginners. This is what you need to polish your vehicle: To polish your car yourself, you need the following: Eccentric polishing machine Polishing pads Polish (at least one, usually you use several one after the other) Microfiber cloth (make sure that you don't use a cheap household cloth but one that is suitable for high-gloss paint) Step by step: Polishing paint with the eccentric polishing machine Polishing a car yourself is no problem with the eccentric polishing machine and is pretty straightforward. To ensure that the polishing process runs smoothly, it is best to follow these 5 steps: Wash the car thoroughly! You can also go to a car wash, but you should do the finishing by hand. Even in a car wash, the vehicle will not be 100% clean. It is best to clean any areas that are still dirty by hand. Now you can prepare the polishing machine: Put the polishing pad on and spread 4-5 drops of polish on it. Now you can start polishing and place the polishing machine on the paint with light pressure. It is best to polish in a cross-stroke pattern. This means that you start at the top left and pull the polishing machine in a straight line to the top right. Then you go one level lower and polish from right to left - and so on. The individual polishing strokes should overlap by about 50%. When you have finished polishing a part, it is best to take a short break and remove the rest of the polish. Don't wait until you have finished with the entire car. The polish could then dry and leave unsightly residue. Make sure that you hold the polishing machine straight during the polishing process. For optimal results and long durability, you can apply a sealant after polishing. Eccentric polishing machine - the most important points in summary An eccentric polishing machine is easy to use and low-risk, even for beginners. Regular polishing contributes to an improved condition and helps to keep the vehicle's value stable. You can also easily remove even small scratches. You should clean your vehicle thoroughly before polishing. A sealant at the end protects the paint and contributes to a long durability.to damage the paint. The eccentric polishing machine is particularly suitable for beginners. This is what you need to polish your vehicle: To polish your car yourself, you need the following: Eccentric polishing machine Polishing pads Polish (at least one, usually you use several one after the other) Microfiber cloth (make sure that you don't use a cheap household cloth but one that is suitable for high-gloss paint) Step by step: polishing paint with the eccentric polishing machine Polishing a car yourself is no problem with the eccentric polishing machine and is pretty straightforward. To ensure that the polishing process runs smoothly, it is best to follow these 5 steps: Wash the car thoroughly! You can also go to a car wash, but you should also do the finishing work by hand. Even in a car wash, the vehicle will not be 100% clean. It is best to clean any areas that are still dirty by hand. Now you can prepare the polishing machine: To do this, put the polishing pad on and spread 4-5 drops of polish on it. Now you can start polishing and place the polishing machine on the paint with light pressure. It is best to polish in a cross-stroke. This means that you start at the top left and pull the polishing machine in a straight line to the top right. Then you go one level lower and polish from right to left - and so on. The individual polishing strokes should overlap by about 50%. When you have finished polishing a part, it is best to take a short break and remove the rest of the polish. Do not wait until you have finished with the entire car. Then the polish could dry out and leave unsightly residue. Make sure that you hold the polishing machine straight during the polishing process. For optimal results and long durability, you can apply a sealant after polishing. Eccentric polishing machine - the most important things in summary An eccentric polishing machine is easy to use and low-risk, even for beginners. Regular polishing contributes to an improved condition and helps to keep the vehicle's value stable. You can also easily remove even small scratches. Before polishing, you should clean your vehicle thoroughly. A sealant at the end protects the paint and contributes to a long service life.to damage the paint. The eccentric polishing machine is particularly suitable for beginners. This is what you need to polish your vehicle: To polish your car yourself, you need the following: Eccentric polishing machine Polishing pads Polish (at least one, usually you use several one after the other) Microfiber cloth (make sure that you don't use a cheap household cloth but one that is suitable for high-gloss paint) Step by step: polishing paint with the eccentric polishing machine Polishing a car yourself is no problem with the eccentric polishing machine and is pretty straightforward. To ensure that the polishing process runs smoothly, it is best to follow these 5 steps: Wash the car thoroughly! You can also go to a car wash, but you should also do the finishing work by hand. Even in a car wash, the vehicle will not be 100% clean. It is best to clean any areas that are still dirty by hand. Now you can prepare the polishing machine: To do this, put the polishing pad on and spread 4-5 drops of polish on it. Now you can start polishing and place the polishing machine on the paint with light pressure. It is best to polish in a cross-stroke. This means that you start at the top left and pull the polishing machine in a straight line to the top right. Then you go one level lower and polish from right to left - and so on. The individual polishing strokes should overlap by about 50%. When you have finished polishing a part, it is best to take a short break and remove the rest of the polish. Do not wait until you have finished with the entire car. Then the polish could dry out and leave unsightly residue. Make sure that you hold the polishing machine straight during the polishing process. For optimal results and long durability, you can apply a sealant after polishing. Eccentric polishing machine - the most important things in summary An eccentric polishing machine is easy to use and low-risk, even for beginners. Regular polishing contributes to an improved condition and helps to keep the vehicle's value stable. You can also easily remove even small scratches. Before polishing, you should clean your vehicle thoroughly. A sealant at the end protects the paint and contributes to a long service life.is no problem with the eccentric polishing machine and is pretty straightforward. To ensure that the polishing process runs smoothly, it is best to follow these 5 steps: Wash the car thoroughly! You can also drive to a car wash, but you should also do the polishing by hand. Even in a car wash, the vehicle will not be 100% clean. It is best to clean areas that are still dirty by hand. Now you can prepare the polishing machine: To do this, put the polishing pad on and spread 4-5 drops of polish on it. Now you can start polishing and place the polishing machine on the paint with light pressure. It is best to polish in a cross-stroke. This means that you start at the top left and pull the polishing machine in a straight line to the top right. Then you go one level lower and polish from right to left - and so on. The individual polishing strokes should overlap by about 50%. When you have finished polishing a part, it is best to take a short break and remove the remains of the polish. Don't wait until you've finished the entire car. The polish could dry out and leave unsightly residue. Make sure you hold the polishing machine straight while polishing. For optimal results and long durability, you can apply a sealant after polishing. Eccentric polishing machine - the most important points in summary An eccentric polishing machine is easy to use and low-risk, even for beginners. Regular polishing contributes to an improved condition and helps to keep the vehicle's value stable. You can also easily remove even small scratches. You should clean your vehicle thoroughly before polishing. A sealant at the end protects the paint and contributes to a long durability.is no problem with the eccentric polishing machine and is pretty straightforward. To ensure that the polishing process runs smoothly, it is best to follow these 5 steps: Wash the car thoroughly! You can also drive to a car wash, but you should also do the polishing by hand. Even in a car wash, the vehicle will not be 100% clean. It is best to clean areas that are still dirty by hand. Now you can prepare the polishing machine: To do this, put the polishing pad on and spread 4-5 drops of polish on it. Now you can start polishing and place the polishing machine on the paint with light pressure. It is best to polish in a cross-stroke. This means that you start at the top left and pull the polishing machine in a straight line to the top right. Then you go one level lower and polish from right to left - and so on. The individual polishing strokes should overlap by about 50%. When you have finished polishing a part, it is best to take a short break and remove the remains of the polish. Don't wait until you've finished the entire car. The polish could dry out and leave unsightly residue. Make sure you hold the polishing machine straight while polishing. For optimal results and long durability, you can apply a sealant after polishing. Eccentric polishing machine - the most important points in summary An eccentric polishing machine is easy to use and low-risk, even for beginners. Regular polishing contributes to an improved condition and helps to keep the vehicle's value stable. You can also easily remove even small scratches. You should clean your vehicle thoroughly before polishing. A sealant at the end protects the paint and contributes to a long durability.until you have finished with the entire car. Then the polish could dry out and leave unsightly residue. Make sure that you hold the polishing machine straight during the polishing process. For optimal results and long durability, you can apply a sealant after polishing. Eccentric polishing machine - the most important points in summary An eccentric polishing machine is easy to use and low-risk, even for beginners. Regular polishing contributes to an improved condition and helps to keep the vehicle's value stable. You can also easily remove even small scratches. You should clean your vehicle thoroughly before polishing. A sealant at the end protects the paint and contributes to a long durability.until you have finished with the entire car. Then the polish could dry out and leave unsightly residue. Make sure that you hold the polishing machine straight during the polishing process. For optimal results and long durability, you can apply a sealant after polishing. Eccentric polishing machine - the most important points in summary An eccentric polishing machine is easy to use and low-risk, even for beginners. Regular polishing contributes to an improved condition and helps to keep the vehicle's value stable. You can also easily remove even small scratches. You should clean your vehicle thoroughly before polishing. A sealant at the end protects the paint and contributes to a long durability."
Care products	rims	Rim cleaner		"Mud, moisture, road grime, road salt, brake dust: Of all the parts on your car, the rims get the most dirt. Regular rim care is important so that they don't become completely dirty at some point. Water and a cloth won't get you very far, because the dirt on the rims is usually very stubborn and difficult to remove. You should also stay away from dubious tips for cleaning with household remedies and household products such as oven cleaner, scouring pads and steel wool - because the surface of the rims can be damaged by the wrong products and unsuitable cleaning. For the best result, you should therefore use a special rim cleaner. Cleaning the rims - when and how often? Rims are often neglected when washing the car, in contrast to windows and paintwork. You should regularly take the time to at least clean the surface of your rims. Otherwise, brake dust and road grime will quickly form a thick layer of dirt. It then sticks to the rims and is literally burned into them by the sunlight. This makes cleaning unnecessarily difficult and time-consuming. If you make sure that you clean them regularly, you will have less dirt to deal with each time. It will also give your car a better overall impression. Because if your car otherwise appears shiny and well-maintained, your rims should not stand out negatively. You can use the twice-yearly wheel change as an opportunity to clean your rims particularly thoroughly. You should also consider the inside of the rims. Since the tires are removed anyway, the rims can be cleaned particularly well when changing the wheels, even in hard-to-reach places. If you have your tires changed at a car repair shop, you can of course also order a rim cleaning there. However, this is usually much more expensive than cleaning them yourself. Finding the right rim cleaner Pump, spray or refill? Rim cleaners are available in a spray can or pump bottle. If you want to clean several vehicles, for example for companies, you can also buy rim cleaners in bulk. Before buying a rim cleaner, you should check whether the product is suitable for your rims. Pay attention to the material compatibility. Depending on whether you are dealing with aluminum rims or steel rims, you will find special rim cleaners. Alkaline or acidic products are unsuitable for aluminum rims, steel rims and any type of painted rims. Although it is particularly easy to remove dirt with these, the aggressive ingredients can damage the surface. If the acid gets into small scratches in the rim, it can also cause corrosion damage. If you clean your rims regularly, particularly strong,but aggressive cleaning products are not necessary because no thick layer of dirt builds up. A rim cleaner should be pH-neutral, i.e. have a pH value of between 6 and 8. This is not only good for the surface material, but also for the environment. Quality pays off The higher the quality of the product, the more dirt is removed during the exposure time alone and hardly any manual work is required. If you don't want to spend so much money, additional polishing is usually necessary. How to clean your rims 1. Take your car to a car wash, a car wash area or a self-service car wash bay. These are the right places to clean your rims. It is not permitted to use it on private property so that the resulting waste water does not get into the groundwater. You can also use the high-pressure cleaner available at car washes. 2. Have everything you need ready: Rim cleaner Rim brush Bucket of water Cotton or microfiber cloth 3. You shouldn't clean your rims immediately after your last car ride. Instead, wait until the tires cool down so that the rim cleaner can take full effect. 4. If the rims are very dirty, remove the coarsest dirt first. If you are cleaning the rims as part of a complete car wash, a trip through the car wash should do the trick. Otherwise, you can also use a high-pressure cleaner. 5. After you have dried the rims, you can now spray them with the rim cleaner. Before you do this, read the manufacturer's instructions for use on the product again. 6. Then let the rim cleaner take effect and stick to the exposure time specified on the container. 7. Now you can really start cleaning. Clean your rims with a rim brush. If you can't reach the areas with the rim brush, you can use a toothbrush or paintbrush. But really limit yourself to the hard-to-reach places. After all, there are special rim brushes that are gentle on the material for a reason. 8. Remove any remaining dirt and traces of the rim cleaner with a clean cotton or microfiber cloth and a little lukewarm water. 9. Finally, seal the rims for optimal protection until the next cleaning. There are special products for this that can be applied to the rims as a spray or liquid with a cloth. Sealing is not necessary for steel rims. Note: When cleaning the rims, you also have the opportunity to examine your rims more closely. If you notice dents, scratches and other small damage, you should have them inspected and repaired at a car repair shop. If there is more serious damage such as cracks or breaks, you may need new rims.A rim cleaner should be pH-neutral, i.e. have a pH value between 6 and 8. This is not only good for the surface material, but also for the environment. Quality pays off The higher the quality of the product, the more dirt is removed during the exposure time alone and hardly any manual work is required. If you don't want to spend so much, additional polishing is usually necessary. This is how you clean your rims 1. Take your car to a car wash, a car wash area or a self-service car wash bay. These are the right places to clean your rims. Use on private property is prohibited so that the resulting waste water does not get into the groundwater. You can also use the high-pressure cleaner available at car washes. 2. Have everything you need ready: Rim cleaner Rim brush Bucket of water Cotton cloth or microfiber cloth 3. You should not clean your rims immediately after your last car journey. Instead, wait until the tires cool down so that the rim cleaner can take full effect. 4. If the rims are very dirty, remove the coarsest dirt first. If you are cleaning the rims as part of a complete car wash, a trip through the car wash should do the trick. Otherwise, you can also use a high-pressure cleaner. 5. After you have dried the rims, you can now spray them with the rim cleaner. Before doing this, read the manufacturer's instructions for use on the product again. 6. Then let the rim cleaner take effect and stick to the exposure time specified on the container. 7. Now you can really start cleaning. Clean your rims with a rim brush. If you can't reach places with the rim brush, you can use a toothbrush or a paintbrush. But really only limit yourself to the hard-to-reach places. After all, there is a reason why there are special rim brushes that protect the material. 8. Remove any remaining dirt and traces of the rim cleaner with a clean cotton or microfiber cloth and some lukewarm water. 9. Finally, seal the rims for optimal protection until the next cleaning. There are special products for this that can be applied to the rims as a spray or liquid with a cloth. Sealing is not necessary for steel rims. Note: When cleaning the rims, you also have the opportunity to take a closer look at your rims. If you notice dents, scratches and other small damage, you should have them inspected and repaired at a car repair shop. If there is more serious damage such as cracks or breaks, you may need new rims.A rim cleaner should be pH-neutral, i.e. have a pH value between 6 and 8. This is not only good for the surface material, but also for the environment. Quality pays off The higher the quality of the product, the more dirt is removed during the exposure time alone and hardly any manual work is required. If you don't want to spend so much, additional polishing is usually necessary. This is how you clean your rims 1. Take your car to a car wash, a car wash area or a self-service car wash bay. These are the right places to clean your rims. Use on private property is prohibited so that the resulting waste water does not get into the groundwater. You can also use the high-pressure cleaner available at car washes. 2. Have everything you need ready: Rim cleaner Rim brush Bucket of water Cotton cloth or microfiber cloth 3. You should not clean your rims immediately after your last car journey. Instead, wait until the tires cool down so that the rim cleaner can take full effect. 4. If the rims are very dirty, remove the coarsest dirt first. If you are cleaning the rims as part of a complete car wash, a trip through the car wash should do the trick. Otherwise, you can also use a high-pressure cleaner. 5. After you have dried the rims, you can now spray them with the rim cleaner. Before doing this, read the manufacturer's instructions for use on the product again. 6. Then let the rim cleaner take effect and stick to the exposure time specified on the container. 7. Now you can really start cleaning. Clean your rims with a rim brush. If you can't reach places with the rim brush, you can use a toothbrush or a paintbrush. But really only limit yourself to the hard-to-reach places. After all, there is a reason why there are special rim brushes that protect the material. 8. Remove any remaining dirt and traces of the rim cleaner with a clean cotton or microfiber cloth and some lukewarm water. 9. Finally, seal the rims for optimal protection until the next cleaning. There are special products for this that can be applied to the rims as a spray or liquid with a cloth. Sealing is not necessary for steel rims. Note: When cleaning the rims, you also have the opportunity to take a closer look at your rims. If you notice dents, scratches and other small damage, you should have them inspected and repaired at a car repair shop. If there is more serious damage such as cracks or breaks, you may need new rims.the more dirt is removed during the exposure time alone and hardly any manual work is required. If you don't want to spend that much, additional polishing is usually necessary. How to clean your rims 1. Take your car to a car wash, a car wash area or a self-service car wash bay. These are the right places to clean your rims. Use on private property is prohibited so that the resulting waste water does not get into the groundwater. You can also use the high-pressure cleaner available at car washes. 2. Have everything you need ready: Rim cleaner Rim brush Bucket of water Cotton cloth or microfiber cloth 3. You should not clean your rims immediately after your last car journey. Instead, wait until the tires have cooled down so that the rim cleaner can take full effect. 4. If the rims are very dirty, remove the coarsest dirt first. If you are cleaning the rims as part of a complete car wash, a trip through the car wash should do the trick. Otherwise, you can also use a high-pressure cleaner. 5. After you have dried the rims, you can now spray them with the rim cleaner. Before doing this, read the manufacturer's instructions for use on the product again. 6. Then let the rim cleaner take effect and stick to the exposure time specified on the container. 7. Now you can really start cleaning. Clean your rims with a rim brush. If you can't reach places with the rim brush, you can use a toothbrush or a paintbrush. But really only limit yourself to the hard-to-reach places. After all, there is a reason why there are special rim brushes that protect the material. 8. Remove the remaining dirt and traces of the rim cleaner with a clean cotton or microfiber cloth and a little lukewarm water. 9. Finally, seal the rims for optimal protection until the next cleaning. There are special products for this that can be applied to the rims as a spray or liquid with a cloth. Sealing is not necessary for steel rims. Note: When cleaning the rims, you also have the opportunity to examine your rims more closely. If you notice dents, scratches and other small damage, you should have them examined and repaired at a car repair shop. If there is more serious damage such as cracks or breaks, you may need new rims.the more dirt is removed during the exposure time alone and hardly any manual work is required. If you don't want to spend that much, additional polishing is usually necessary. How to clean your rims 1. Take your car to a car wash, a car wash area or a self-service car wash bay. These are the right places to clean your rims. Use on private property is prohibited so that the resulting waste water does not get into the groundwater. You can also use the high-pressure cleaner available at car washes. 2. Have everything you need ready: Rim cleaner Rim brush Bucket of water Cotton cloth or microfiber cloth 3. You should not clean your rims immediately after your last car journey. Instead, wait until the tires have cooled down so that the rim cleaner can take full effect. 4. If the rims are very dirty, remove the coarsest dirt first. If you are cleaning the rims as part of a complete car wash, a trip through the car wash should do the trick. Otherwise, you can also use a high-pressure cleaner. 5. After you have dried the rims, you can now spray them with the rim cleaner. Before doing this, read the manufacturer's instructions for use on the product again. 6. Then let the rim cleaner take effect and stick to the exposure time specified on the container. 7. Now you can really start cleaning. Clean your rims with a rim brush. If you can't reach places with the rim brush, you can use a toothbrush or a paintbrush. But really only limit yourself to the hard-to-reach places. After all, there is a reason why there are special rim brushes that protect the material. 8. Remove the remaining dirt and traces of the rim cleaner with a clean cotton or microfiber cloth and a little lukewarm water. 9. Finally, seal the rims for optimal protection until the next cleaning. There are special products for this that can be applied to the rims as a spray or liquid with a cloth. Sealing is not necessary for steel rims. Note: When cleaning the rims, you also have the opportunity to examine your rims more closely. If you notice dents, scratches and other small damage, you should have them examined and repaired at a car repair shop. If there is more serious damage such as cracks or breaks, you may need new rims.so that the resulting waste water does not get into the groundwater. You can also use the high-pressure cleaner available at car washes. 2. Have everything you need ready: Rim cleaner Rim brush Bucket of water Cotton or microfiber cloth 3. You should not clean your rims immediately after your last car journey. Instead, wait until the tires cool down so that the rim cleaner can take full effect. 4. If the rims are very dirty, remove the coarsest dirt first. If you are cleaning the rims as part of a complete car wash, a trip through the car wash should do the trick. Otherwise, you can also use a high-pressure cleaner. 5. After you have dried the rims, you can now spray them with the rim cleaner. Before you do this, read the manufacturer's instructions for use on the product again. 6. Then allow the rim cleaner to take effect and stick to the exposure time specified on the container. 7. Now you can really start cleaning. Clean your rims with a rim brush. If you can't reach places with the rim brush, you can use a toothbrush or a paintbrush. But really limit yourself to the hard-to-reach places. After all, there are special rim brushes that are gentle on the material for a reason. 8. Remove any remaining dirt and traces of the rim cleaner with a clean cotton or microfiber cloth and a little lukewarm water. 9. Finally, seal the rims for optimal protection until the next cleaning. There are special products for this that can be applied to the rims as a spray or liquid with a cloth. Sealing is not necessary for steel rims. Note: When cleaning the rims, you also have the opportunity to examine your rims more closely. If you notice dents, scratches and other small damage, you should have them inspected and repaired at a car repair shop. If there is major damage such as cracks or breaks, you may need new rims.so that the resulting waste water does not get into the groundwater. You can also use the high-pressure cleaner available at car washes. 2. Have everything you need ready: Rim cleaner Rim brush Bucket of water Cotton or microfiber cloth 3. You should not clean your rims immediately after your last car journey. Instead, wait until the tires cool down so that the rim cleaner can take full effect. 4. If the rims are very dirty, remove the coarsest dirt first. If you are cleaning the rims as part of a complete car wash, a trip through the car wash should do the trick. Otherwise, you can also use a high-pressure cleaner. 5. After you have dried the rims, you can now spray them with the rim cleaner. Before you do this, read the manufacturer's instructions for use on the product again. 6. Then allow the rim cleaner to take effect and stick to the exposure time specified on the container. 7. Now you can really start cleaning. Clean your rims with a rim brush. If you can't reach places with the rim brush, you can use a toothbrush or a paintbrush. But really limit yourself to the hard-to-reach places. After all, there are special rim brushes that are gentle on the material for a reason. 8. Remove any remaining dirt and traces of the rim cleaner with a clean cotton or microfiber cloth and a little lukewarm water. 9. Finally, seal the rims for optimal protection until the next cleaning. There are special products for this that can be applied to the rims as a spray or liquid with a cloth. Sealing is not necessary for steel rims. Note: When cleaning the rims, you also have the opportunity to examine your rims more closely. If you notice dents, scratches and other small damage, you should have them inspected and repaired at a car repair shop. If there is major damage such as cracks or breaks, you may need new rims.Before you do this, read the manufacturer's instructions for use on the product again. 6. Then allow the rim cleaner to take effect and stick to the exposure time specified on the container. 7. Now you can really start cleaning. Clean your rims with a rim brush. If you can't reach the areas with the rim brush, you can use a toothbrush or a paintbrush. But really only limit yourself to the hard-to-reach places. After all, there are special rim brushes that are gentle on the material for a reason. 8. Remove any remaining dirt and traces of the rim cleaner with a clean cotton or microfiber cloth and a little lukewarm water. 9. Finally, seal the rims for optimal protection until the next cleaning. There are special products for this that can be applied to the rims as a spray or liquid with a cloth. Sealing is not necessary for steel rims. Note: When cleaning your rims, you also have the opportunity to examine your rims more closely. If you notice dents, scratches and other small damage, you should have them inspected and repaired at a car repair shop. If there is more serious damage such as cracks or breaks, you may need new rims.Before you do this, read the manufacturer's instructions for use on the product again. 6. Then allow the rim cleaner to take effect and stick to the exposure time specified on the container. 7. Now you can really start cleaning. Clean your rims with a rim brush. If you can't reach the areas with the rim brush, you can use a toothbrush or a paintbrush. But really only limit yourself to the hard-to-reach places. After all, there are special rim brushes that are gentle on the material for a reason. 8. Remove any remaining dirt and traces of the rim cleaner with a clean cotton or microfiber cloth and a little lukewarm water. 9. Finally, seal the rims for optimal protection until the next cleaning. There are special products for this that can be applied to the rims as a spray or liquid with a cloth. Sealing is not necessary for steel rims. Note: When cleaning your rims, you also have the opportunity to examine your rims more closely. If you notice dents, scratches and other small damage, you should have them inspected and repaired at a car repair shop. If there is more serious damage such as cracks or breaks, you may need new rims."
Care products	Interior & window	Air freshener & scented tree		"Over time, a number of smells build up in every car: be it the smell of fast food, spilled drinks or damp clothing. Whether you get in your car every day and commute or are planning a long-distance trip on holiday, you can certainly do without the smell of driving. A scented tree is the solution to the (smell) problem. The small cardboard tree has been a popular extra for interior design for decades. It is usually attached to the rear-view mirror and continuously spreads its scent throughout the car interior. This ensures that you can always breathe easily while driving. In reference to the most well-known brand, the scented tree is often called a miracle tree. The name says it all, because the small tree helps in many situations. Here are a few examples: You want to give a used car that previously belonged to a smoker a fresh new smell. You want to return your leased vehicle in perfect olfactory condition. You want to give your passengers a pleasant driving experience in every respect. You ate a kebab/currywurst/gyros box in your car and didn't expect the smell to linger so persistently in the interior. You're picking up your mother-in-law from the airport and don't want to give her a chance to attack you with the smell of your car's interior. The scent that the air freshener gives off usually lasts for several weeks. This means that the air freshener can perform many different miracles before you have to replace it. Scents for your air freshener If you want to order a new air freshener, you first have to make the most important decision of all: what scent should it be? The selection of scents is huge and has the right scent for even the most unusual taste Possible scents for your air freshener tree: Fresh scents such as mint, cucumber, lemon, sea water Sweet scents such as vanilla Flowery scents such as rose Fruity scents such as cherry, apple, peach Exotic scents such as coconut, pina colada New Car: An air freshener tree with a New Car Note will make your car smell like new again Personalize your air freshener tree Since the air freshener tree usually hangs on the rear-view mirror and thus has a central place in your car, you should think carefully about which air freshener tree you like. A single-colored, plain air freshener tree is the classic choice for the car. Air fresheners are now available not only in different scents, but also with different patterns and motifs. And when it comes to shape, there is no longer just the classic tree to choose from. More and more manufacturers are selling air freshener ?trees? that deviate from the usual shape and have, for example, a heart shape or a square shape. Tip: Everyone wants their car to smell good. That's why air fresheners are a nice gift idea that always fits.Thanks to countless shape and color combinations, there is sure to be something to suit every birthday child. Alternative to the air freshener tree: air freshener for the car You don't necessarily need an air freshener tree to get a fresh smell in your car. If you don't want to hang a tree on your rear-view mirror, you can fill your car with a fresh scent in other ways. There are several ways to do this: Air fresheners in various scents are also available in cans. The scent is distributed evenly throughout the car through openings in the lid. You can store such a can discreetly under one of the seats or place it on the dashboard shelf. Another advantage of such air fresheners is that, unlike with an air freshener tree, the intensity of the scent can be regulated with the lid. You can distribute air freshener from a spray can in the car simply at the touch of a button. Like an air freshener for the home, the spray should not only cover up bad smells, but also ensure lasting fresh air in the car. Another advantage: You can use the air freshener immediately when you notice bad smells and only use it when you really need it."
Care products	Interior & window	Cockpit spray		"Of course, you want your car to look good, and that's why you probably spend a lot of time caring for and cleaning the exterior paintwork, rims and windows. But you shouldn't neglect caring for the interior of your car either. After all, you and your passengers want to be comfortable and pleasant on every journey. This also includes a completely clean car. Dust and dirt quickly collect in the cockpit in particular, covering fittings and surfaces like a grey veil. Added to this are dirt and grease deposits from touching the cockpit or putting objects down. Even if you regularly eat and drink in the car, this leaves traces on the cockpit. Greasy fingerprints and sticky stains from spilled drinks can quickly appear there. That's why you should regularly get your car's cockpit back into a presentable condition. You can use a cockpit spray specially designed for this purpose. The advantages of cockpit spray To remove dust and dirt from your car's cockpit, a little water and a microfiber cloth would basically be enough. So why should you still use a cockpit spray? A spray specially designed for your cockpit has the following advantages: It not only cleans the surface material, but also cares for it. Its antistatic effect delays the re-deposition of dust and dirt and keeps the cockpit clean for longer. It refreshes the colors of the cockpit surfaces and renews the glossy or matte effect. The spray not only removes dirt and dust from the cockpit, but also lays a protective layer over it and keeps it free of dirt for longer. The antistatic and dust-repellent effect delays the settling of dust. Using the cockpit spray is not just about removing dust and dirt, but also about long-term care of the material. Therefore, before buying, you should check carefully whether you are dealing with a high-quality spray and whether the spray is suitable for the materials in the interior of your car. This will ensure the longevity of the surface material. Most cockpit sprays can be used on plastic surfaces. For leather surfaces, you usually have to use a spray specially designed for this purpose. Choosing the right spray What the cockpit spray has to be able to do depends entirely on your requirements. And the number and car hygiene of your passengers is also important. Is your car sacred to you? Do you only touch everything in it with clean fingers? And food and drinks are taboo anyway? Or do you only take other people with you very rarely? Then a fairly simple cockpit spray is sufficient. Someone who is less concerned about the cleanliness of the car interior and regularly has a lot of passengers should use a strong cockpit spray.that is suitable for as many surfaces as possible. When choosing the right cockpit spray, you should also make sure that you maintain the original look of the cockpit. For example, there are some cockpit sprays with a glossy effect. If you prefer a matte look, you should choose a spray with a matte or satin effect instead. In addition to the common, odorless cockpit sprays, there are also products with a special scent. With these, you can not only clean the cockpit but also give your car a pleasant scent that lasts for a few days. How to use it Using cockpit spray is extremely simple: shake the spray can, spray the contents of the spray evenly onto the cockpit and then wipe it off with a clean rag or microfiber cloth. Since the spray dries quickly, you should only spray a small part of the cockpit and wipe it off immediately afterwards. Tips and tricks for use You can use the cockpit spray as often as you like. Using it too often is not harmful. In principle, however, it is sufficient to clean your car's cockpit once a week with the spray. Again, it all depends on how quickly your interior normally gets dirty. Even for particularly devoted car owners who keep their cockpit free of any dirt, regular use of the cockpit spray is worthwhile due to the unavoidable buildup of dust. Warning: The cockpit spray has its name for a reason. Therefore, before using it, make sure which materials your spray is suitable for - and which it is not. Not every cockpit spray is suitable for use on rubber, for example. If you spray an unsuitable spray on the floor mat, pedals or steering wheel, you could slip with your hands and feet and risk an accident. If you actually only use the cockpit spray on the cockpit, you are on the safe side.you should only ever spray a small part of the cockpit and wipe it off immediately afterwards. Tips and tricks for use You can use the cockpit spray as often as you like. Using it too often is not harmful. In principle, however, it is sufficient to clean the cockpit of your car with the spray once a week. Here, too, it all depends on how quickly your interior normally gets dirty. Even for particularly devoted car owners who keep their cockpit free of any dirt, regular use of the cockpit spray is worthwhile due to the unavoidable build-up of dust. Warning: The cockpit spray has its name for a reason. Therefore, before using it, make sure which materials your spray is suitable for - and which it is not. Not every cockpit spray is suitable for use on rubber, for example. If you spray an unsuitable spray on the floor mat, pedals or steering wheel, you could slip with your hands and feet and risk an accident. If you actually only use the cockpit spray for the cockpit, you are on the safe side.you should only ever spray a small part of the cockpit and wipe it off immediately afterwards. Tips and tricks for use You can use the cockpit spray as often as you like. Using it too often is not harmful. In principle, however, it is sufficient to clean the cockpit of your car with the spray once a week. Here, too, it all depends on how quickly your interior normally gets dirty. Even for particularly devoted car owners who keep their cockpit free of any dirt, regular use of the cockpit spray is worthwhile due to the unavoidable build-up of dust. Warning: The cockpit spray has its name for a reason. Therefore, before using it, make sure which materials your spray is suitable for - and which it is not. Not every cockpit spray is suitable for use on rubber, for example. If you spray an unsuitable spray on the floor mat, pedals or steering wheel, you could slip with your hands and feet and risk an accident. If you actually only use the cockpit spray for the cockpit, you are on the safe side."
Care products	Painting supplies	Paints & varnishes	Clear coat	"Clear coat is pigment-free, colorless paint that is usually made from binding agents and solvents. It is ideal as a protective surface seal for the colored base coat of your car. To optimally protect your paint, you should therefore always apply it. The advantages of clear coat The clear coat effectively covers the base coat and protects it from: Weather influences UV rays Moisture Mechanical damage Chemicals Transparent and inconspicuous: You can easily apply clear coat over the base coat The additional shine effect refines the look of your car To avoid the base coat of your car losing its brilliance and color over time due to external influences or even becoming partially damaged, you should definitely use clear coat as a protective layer. The transparency means that the base coat is still visible, but the clear coat acts as a protective layer and gives it additional shine. These types of clear coat are available Clear coat is available either in a spray can or in a paint can. You can spray the spray can version directly onto your car. For clear coat from a paint can you also need a spray gun. But you don't just have a choice when it comes to packaging: When buying you can also decide between glossy and matt clear coat. Because of its transparency, matt clear coat is not completely matt, but simply has the lowest level of gloss. There are also various intermediate levels of clear coat between glossy and matt (e.g. satin matt). Applying clear coat correctly Applying clear coat basically works like any other paint: Thoroughly clean all parts that you want to paint Mask off all parts that you do not want to paint with adhesive tape or similar Mix the paint and hardener if necessary Apply the clear coat with a paint can or spray gun Allow the paint to dry. Repeat steps 4 and 5 for as many coats as you like Done. There are a few other things you should pay attention to with clear coat. What you need to pay attention to Before buying, check whether the clear coat is suitable for painting over the base coat of your car. Not every clear coat is suitable for every base coat. You can find out which base coats the respective clear coat is suitable for in the product description. It is best to apply clear coat outdoors in good weather or in a workshop or garage with sufficient ventilation. It should not be too hot or too cold. Decide how many coats of clear coat you want to apply. The thicker the coat, the more shine you will get. So apply thinner coats for a matte effect. Give the clear coat enough time to dry between spraying the individual coats (at least 10 minutes). After 24 hours, the clear coat is completely dry and your car is ready for use again.To make the clear coat even more stable, you can use a special clear coat hardener, which you can buy separately. So-called 2K clear coat already contains such a hardener. This means that it dries faster, hardens better and is particularly scratch-resistant and weather-resistant. When painting with matt clear coat, you have to work particularly precisely. Unlike with glossy clear coat, you should not polish or sand matt paint to touch it up."
Care products	Painting supplies	Spray film		"When applying a car wrap with spray film, as the name suggests, a liquid film is sprayed onto the car in layers. Spray films are available in different colors and with different effects such as matt or metallic. A spray film acts as a stable surface coating that protects your car from scratches, stone chips and other damage caused by external influences - just like a classic adhesive film. Possible uses for spray film You can apply the spray film to your entire vehicle, but also to individual parts, such as the rims. It is suitable for both the body and the interior of your car and can be sprayed onto plastic just as well as chrome - in short, you can apply it to all non-absorbent surfaces. You can embellish the following parts with spray film, among others: Rims Exterior mirrors Doors Roof Bonnet Tailgate Bumpers Radiator grille It is easier if you only want to apply spray film to individual components. This is because the larger the area to be wrapped, the more difficult it is to spray the film evenly and avoid paint runs. The advantages of spray film Spray film not only impresses with its flexible application possibilities on the car, but also offers other advantages: Using spray film is easy and works without any tools. By spraying it on, the film can also be easily applied along curves, bulges, indentations and corners. Spray film does not contain any adhesive that is harmful to the car's paintwork, but wraps around it like a protective cover. Spray film can be removed without leaving any residue. Spray film is therefore a great way to give your car a new look without much effort or to spruce it up a bit. But spray film is also a simple solution for effective protection against dirt and wear. Applying the spray film When spraying on spray film, you have two options: Either you use a spray can or a paint sprayer. To ensure that everything works perfectly, you should take a few things into account. You should pay attention to the following: The right ambient temperature: This should be around 20 degrees, 5 degrees more or less is also fine. But it should not be colder or warmer. You should also avoid direct sunlight during the spraying process. Air conditions: There should be sufficient exhaust air so that the spray film can dry properly. It is therefore best to spray the film outside in suitable weather or in a suitable garage or workshop. Distance: Spray the film onto the component from a distance of 15-20 cm. Drying time: Wait at least 15 minutes between spraying the individual layers so that the film can dry. Otherwise, the quality of the paint and the durability of the spray film will suffer. Unsightly bubbles can also form.Protection: Protect yourself while spraying with gloves, overalls or clothes that can get dirty, and ideally a respiratory mask. Do not spray on fresh paint: Car paint takes a while to dry completely. This is why you should wait at least 2 months on a new car or after a paint job before applying film. This is what you need to apply film with spray film: Spray can or paint gun Rag and possibly cleaning agent Adhesive tape or plug-in cards (for the rims) Gloves Here's how it works 1. Thoroughly clean your car or all surfaces you want to apply the spray film to. You should completely remove all residues of dust, dirt and grease. 2. If you want to spruce up individual components, such as the rims, with spray film, dismantle it first. This way the film does not accidentally end up where it shouldn't. If dismantling is not possible without further ado, tape off the area around the component to be sprayed. If spray film gets into cracks, it is particularly difficult to remove. If you want to apply spray film to your rims, it is best to use some cardboard. You can put this between the rim and the tire to prevent the spray film from getting on the tires. 3. If you are using a spray can, shake it well beforehand. Now carefully spray layer after layer. With movements that are as even as possible, you prevent paint runs from forming. 4. Then check again whether you have managed to apply the spray film without cracks, paint runs or bubbles. Also make sure that no splashes have strayed onto other car parts. 5. Allow the relevant component to dry for around 12 hours. Then you can start driving again with your beautified and now well-protected car! Tip No. 1: To ensure that the spray film lasts a long time and offers the desired look, you should apply at least five layers. Give the spray film enough time to dry after each layer. If, despite all the care taken when spraying, paint runs do occur, simply peel off the film and try again. Tip No. 2: Don't rush! You should definitely take the time you need to get a good result. If the previous layer of film is not completely dry when you spray on a layer of film, bubbles can form. So plan generous breaks for drying. This will ensure that the spraying of the film goes smoothly and ultimately save you more time, as you won't have to peel the film off again because bubbles have crept in. And why shouldn't you celebrate the beautification and care of your car a little? If you take it easy, you'll be more focused and be able to spray on the film better. How long does spray film last? If the spray film is applied carefully and professionally,Depending on the care and wear and tear caused by external influences, it will last for several years without cracking or losing its color. Neither cold nor heat affect the quality and durability of a high-quality spray film, nor does UV light. Another important factor for the durability of the spray film is the number of layers in which it is applied. In order to benefit from the effects and protection of a spray film for as long as possible, you should therefore rely on high-quality products and ensure that it is professionally applied. Do you fancy a color change and want to remove the spray film beforehand? No problem: the spray film can be removed from the car like an adhesive film without leaving any residue. After spraying the film on, you can care for your car as before. This means: car washes, polishing, high-pressure cleaners or hand washing with brushes and conventional cleaning agents are no problem. However, you should not use cleaning agents that are too aggressive. If in doubt, find out beforehand or test the cleaning agent on an inconspicuous area. Ideally, you should use a special spray film cleaner. If damage does occur despite all care, you can paint over it with a new layer. However, it is better to remove the film completely and spray on a new one. A practical spray film remover also helps when removing the spray film."
Tires rim	Tires | Rims | Complete wheels			"All tires are round. Even a layman can tell that they are not identical by the price. But what exactly distinguishes a good tire from a very good tire and are branded tires the same as premium tires? We will try to give an answer and also look at retreaded tires. First of all, you should be aware of how important a tire is for the safe movement of a car on the road. The contact area per tire is roughly the size of a postcard and this small area must be sufficient to transmit all drive, braking and steering forces. The tire should have as little rolling resistance as possible in order to save fuel, but on the other hand always ensure sufficient grip. It must meet these requirements on both dry and wet surfaces. In the case of winter tires, behavior on ice, snow and mud is also important. The abundance of target variables makes every tire that meets them with flying colors a high-tech product that requires corresponding research and development. Premium winter tires from Michelin Michelin is one of the largest tire manufacturers in the world. (Image: jofo2005 @flickr.com (CC BY-ND 2.0)) Bridgestone winter tires Winter tires usually have a distinctive profile. (Image: natsu_moo @flickr.com (CC BY-SA 2.0)) But technology and constant improvements are not free. Charles Goodyear, who discovered the vulcanization of rubber and thus created the basis for all rubber tires, died penniless and was sentenced to prison several times during his lifetime for his debts. Research is still expensive today, so the tire market is now divided between five large manufacturers that are familiar to most drivers: Goodyear Bridgestone Continental Pirelli Michelin Tires from these five manufacturers are always referred to as premium tires. But what about brands like Dunlop, Fulda, Pneumant, Goodrich or Firestone? The pleasant-sounding names are retained because of their history, but the tire is usually made by one of the five premium manufacturers, who share a total market share of 80% between them. And even if you stand on your own two feet, strategic cooperation makes sense. The South Korean tire manufacturer Hankook Tire, for example, maintained a strategic alliance with Michelin from 2003 to 2011. Advantages of premium tires Premium tires represent the current state of tire technology and impress with their performance in independent tests, such as those carried out several times a year by the ADAC, for example. The current tire test winners are accordingly sought after and somewhat more expensive in comparison. But the middle field in the test is also usually dominated by premium tires. Anyone who chooses such a tire can be sure that they are buying a high-quality and durable tire that combines maximum efficiency and safety. This is also the reason whywhy we recommend buying premium manufacturers when buying new tires. Then you don't have to worry about quality and can concentrate entirely on the cheapest alternative. At kfzteile24 you have a large selection of premium tires that also impress with their good price. Pirelli Sottozero winter tires Pirelli also offers high-quality winter tires. (Image: mroach @flickr.com (CC BY-SA 2.0)) What are brand tires? Like any categorization, the division between premium and brand tires leaves room for interpretation. Brand manufacturers such as Dunlop or Hankook are often also referred to as premium tires, and with some justification. After all, Hankook is the sixth largest tire manufacturer in the world and performs at a comparable level in tests. But the classification as a brand tire does not detract from the quality. Brand tires can also shine with good test results and are usually a little cheaper in direct comparison with premium tires. However, don't let the term brand tire fool you when making your purchase decision. Because in addition to well-known and renowned brands, there are also so-called no-name tires, which of course also have a name. In contrast to premium tires, the performance spectrum of branded tires, especially with no-name variants, is therefore inconsistent. Therefore, pay particular attention to independent tests (ADAC, AutoBild, auto motor und sport). Branded tires are usually significantly cheaper than the premium competition. Dunlop tires Dunlop is a brand of and offers tires of the highest quality. (Image: PIVISO @flickr.com (CC0 1.0)) Firestone tires Firestone is a brand of Bridgestone and has been producing tires for over 100 years. (Image: Jocelyn @flickr.com (CC BY 2.0)) Retreaded tires? In the passenger car sector, retreaded tires play only a minor role with a 5% market share, since the tire load is rather low compared to aircraft or commercial vehicles. Retreading makes sense if the inside of the tire is still OK and only the tread needs to be renewed. The outer rubber layer is removed and the profile is vulcanized onto the old carcass. The process is safe, as retreaded tires must also pass approval and have an ECE test seal. In addition, they lose a speed rating, which means that you cannot drive as fast with retreaded tires as you would with new tires. There is also a labeling requirement. You can recognize a retreaded tire by an ""R"" or the terms ""retreaded,"" ""retreaded"" or ""retread."" Of course, retreaded tires are particularly cheap, but clever customers can also get real bargains at kfzteile24 and buy branded and premium tires cheaply. a retreaded tire If you are on a tight budget, retreaded tires could be an alternative.(Image: dwstucke @flickr.com (CC BY 2.0)) Structure of a tire In contrast to bicycle tires, car tires do not use a tube; instead, they consist of a supporting carcass that is tensioned by the internal pressure. The carcass is the framework of the tire, so to speak, and consists of layers of fabric embedded in rubber. These can be synthetic fibers such as polyester or polyamide, but steel cord is also used due to its high strength and elasticity. The tire belt is located above the carcass. It consists of nylon and steel fabric laid lengthways and crossways to the tread and serves as reinforcement. The outermost layer of a tire is called the tread. It contains the tread grooves and tread blocks, which are optimized depending on the area of ??use and weather. The sidewalls as external carcass protection, a bead for the firm connection to the rim and a special inner rubber mixture that prevents air from diffusing to the outside, complete the tire. All the parts are laid one after the other in layers around a winding machine, starting from the inside, and then vulcanized under high pressure (up to 22 bar). This step also gives the tire its profile, which is embedded in the mold as a negative. Dunlop Sport Blueresponse You can't tell just by looking at a tire how complex its structure is.) Aluminum rim AEZ Cliff dark from Alcar Aluminum rim DEZENT TD black from Alcar Structure of a rim A rim is actually just the outer ring of a wheel without the tire, which is connected to the wheel flange by the rim. However, since it is now almost always a single component made from a single piece, the rim is often synonymous with the entire wheel without the tire. Rims are either made from rolled steel or cast or forged from light metal. Steel wheels are still the most common. The rim is made from hot-rolled steel and welded to the wheel disc or wheel disk as a contact surface in sections so that the weld seams are exposed to changing bending stresses under dynamic driving loads. This ensures fatigue strength and prevents the weld seams from breaking. The offset indicates the distance from the contact surface to the center of the rim and determines the track width. It can be positive or negative, with a negative offset resulting in a larger track width because the wheel disc is shifted inwards. Light alloy wheels, on the other hand, are usually cast or forged from aluminum or magnesium alloys, and are available in one-piece or multi-piece versions. A silvery matt layer of paint applied using a powder coating process gives light alloy rims their chic appearance. Chrome aluminum wheels with a high-gloss surface are also very popular.Summer tires A summer tire is designed for road conditions without snow and ice and must not become too soft even at high temperatures. The rubber compound and profile are selected to find a compromise between low rolling resistance and good grip in wet conditions. Each manufacturer sets different priorities, so you should determine your requirements for a summer tire before buying. Like all tires, summer tires must have a minimum tread depth of 1.6 mm, with a thicker profile (with higher consumption) reducing the risk of aquaplaning. Winter tires In contrast to summer tires, winter tires are designed for ice, snow and slippery conditions. They are also known as M+S tires (mud+snow) and have been mandatory in Germany since 2010 in appropriate weather conditions. They differ from summer tires in that they have a thicker profile, which is intended to offer better driving and traction properties, and usually have slats that ensure traction with the road. The rubber compound is also adapted to the lower temperatures so that it remains elastic and driving safety is always guaranteed. All-season tires All-season tires, also known as all-weather tires, attempt to combine the properties of summer and winter tires. Since the tires are used all year round, all-weather tires save you the trouble of changing them and you don't have to store a set of tires. As a compromise solution, however, they offer neither the advantages of summer tires nor the safety of winter tires. However, they are suitable in regions with little fluctuation between summer and winter, for example on the coast.Since the tires are used all year round, all-weather tires save you the trouble of changing them and you don't have to store a set of tires. As a compromise solution, however, they offer neither the advantages of summer tires nor the safety of winter tires. They are, however, suitable in regions with little fluctuation between summer and winter, for example on the coast.Since the tires are used all year round, all-weather tires save you the trouble of changing them and you don't have to store a set of tires. As a compromise solution, however, they offer neither the advantages of summer tires nor the safety of winter tires. They are, however, suitable in regions with little fluctuation between summer and winter, for example on the coast."
	Tires rim	Rim configurator		"With the rim configurator you can quickly and easily find the rims that are exactly right for your vehicle type. Using the information from the vehicle documents at the start of the configuration, the system determines which rims are permitted for the corresponding car. It does not matter whether you are looking for steel or aluminum rims. You can also order complete wheels within the rim configurator. Rim configurator at kfzteile24 Sample rims Comprehensive selection and the highest quality After receiving the vehicle data, the rim configurator shows the range of all available rims or complete wheels, which are of course only produced by well-known manufacturers. The goods are usually dispatched within one working day. If there are different versions of the vehicle type entered, the system draws your attention to this and asks for further detailed information, which can be found in the registration certificate part I. This makes the path to the right rim or wheel short and unambiguous. All available rims that are permitted for the car are available for selection. For better visualization, the system displays a picture of the car in the configurable car color. This allows you to get an impression of the final look and evaluate the rims before ordering. Of course, a reference to a tire pressure monitoring system (TPMS) is also included. This shows whether additional accessories, such as a TPMS sensor, are required to install the new rims."
	Tires rim	TIRES | Summer | Winter | All-weather		"A tire consists of several layers, each of which provides optimal stability and strength in its own way. The composition of these tire layers differs depending on the type of tire. There are variations, for example, in winter tires, as the tire must be soft enough even in very cold temperatures to ensure that the vehicle has good grip on the road. Car tires and car rims together form the wheel. This is an essential part of the vehicle and is a key factor in determining safety and driving behavior. The condition of the road, in turn, directly determines the requirements placed on a car tire. The temperature and humidity of the road are particularly relevant here. A cold and wet road in winter sets different conditions than a dry and hot road in summer. In order to cover changing requirements as broadly as possible, the industry provides various car tires. It is important for all tires to have sufficient tread depth, as the tire's grip on the road becomes increasingly poor as the tread depth decreases. In Germany, a tread depth of 1.6 millimeters is therefore legally required. a summer tire from Dunlop a winter tire from Continental Summer tires and winter tires Summer tires are designed for use in warm or hot conditions. These tires are designed not to become too soft at high temperatures and thus not to wear out excessively. The special rubber compound that characterizes these tires ensures that they can be used at high speeds as well as at high temperatures. The profile of summer tires is relatively flat, as the tire has good grip on the already dry road surfaces. They are usually used from April to October. Changing them in good time is strongly recommended, as they no longer offer a secure grip when the road becomes slippery and snowy. Since 2010, winter tires have been compulsory in Germany in winter road conditions, i.e. when there is ice, slippery road surfaces and snow. The corresponding winter tires are specially designed for low temperatures and winter conditions. The rubber compound of these tires is soft enough even at low temperatures to guarantee that the tire has grip on the road. They are marked with the M+S symbol (English: Mud and Snow). All-weather tires All-weather tires, also known as all-season tires, are a compromise solution. They are used in both summer and winter. However, in winter they cannot keep up with the properties of a good winter tire, nor do they achieve the performance of a summer tire in the warm season. Due to their softer rubber compound, they tend to wear more and consume slightly more fuel. They are a compromise solution,which is particularly suitable for northern Germany and city cars."
	Rim trees / stands			"Rim trees are often an ideal alternative to tire racks because they offer optimal use of storage space while taking up little space. The tree or stand itself takes up very little space due to its dimensions in width and height. Only the set of tires stored on it determines how much storage space is actually needed. Other advantages are obvious. Firstly, the floor is easy to clean because the tire stored below does not rest on the floor. Secondly, all tires can be rotated freely and are therefore much easier to access, no matter how tight the storage space is. The profile can be checked very easily and tire labels can be rotated to an optimal position for the user. Using a rim tree has another advantage that is very important from a safety point of view. By placing the tire on a holder that only supports the rim, the tire is completely free of stress even during storage. For rubber, one-sided, long-term stress can lead to damage and thus a lower mileage. This means that the user can potentially save money by increasing the longevity of their tires. What should be considered? Tire racks of various types and qualities can sometimes be found in supermarkets or discount stores at bargain prices. Offers of this kind are strongly discouraged. Even with a tire rack, however simple the concept may be, adequate and consistent quality is at the top of the list of requirements for professionals. kfzteile24 has the highest quality standards and therefore only sells car parts from well-known manufacturers such as ATE, BOSCH, MANN-Filter, MONROE, SKF or WALKER. The base should be made of bend-free, stable material. The arms should not be less than a certain width in order not to unbalance the fully loaded rim rack. Ideally, the arm should have swivel feet to compensate for unevenness in the ground. The support bolts of the individual plates should also be solid and stable. After all, a single tire with the corresponding dimensions can quickly weigh up to 18 kilograms or more. Another safety feature is a notch in the rim plate to allow the support bolt to rest more flatly. This increases the pressure distribution in the smaller components and thus creates further safety. The rim trunk should be able to be split in the middle so that the lower rim does not have to be threaded over the entire trunk. This is easier on the back and more practical. The rim trunk must be made of bend-free, rust-proof material so that corrosion does not become a destabilizer."
	Rim fastening / wheel bolts / nuts			"Three, four or five wheel bolts are usually used to attach the wheel or rim to the vehicle. Their job is to center the wheel, transfer the wheel forces (acceleration, braking, cornering) and ensure concentricity. The materials used are steel or aluminum, and less frequently plastic. To ensure good force and form fit, the rim mounting holes are provided with a collar, i.e. with a conical or partially spherical milled recess in which the correspondingly shaped bolt heads are centered. Wheel bolts Depending on the intended use and the different wheels of the manufacturers, there are various shapes and sizes that must be observed. A basic criterion for motor vehicles and commercial vehicles is structural strength and corrosion resistance, which determines whether steel, aluminum or other materials can be used. The design, thread size and thread length as well as the wrench size then determine the use. The most common designs include flat collar screws, tapered collar screws and ball collar screws (each with or without a movable collar), which differ essentially in the more or less pronounced profile of the contact collar. The most common parameters according to DIN 74361 are the thread dimensions M 12 and M 14 and the wrench sizes 17, 19 and 22, whereby the dimension M 14 x 1.5 x 51, for example, provides information about thread diameter x thread pitch x thread length (information in millimeters). The tightening torque specified by the vehicle or rim manufacturer in Newton meters (Nm) must be observed; this should neither be undercut nor overtightened for all bolts. Nuts Universal fastening nuts for motor vehicles and commercial vehicle wheels are usually equipped with the DIN thread dimensions M 10 and M 12 and the wrench sizes 17, 19 and 24. There are also inch sizes for American or older English vehicles (e.g. 1/2"" UNF x 19.5 mm), which correspond to the American UNF standard (Unified National Fine). Fastening nuts are attached to bolts that are welded to the wheel hub or pushed through from behind (stud bolts). The prescribed tightening torque must be strictly adhered to, as the fastening nuts have a shorter thread than the wheel bolts and can therefore be overtightened or loosened more easily. If you have any further questions, our award-winning customer support team will be happy to help you."
	Rim fastening / wheel bolts / nuts	Fastening nuts		"Securely attach the tire to the vehicle with wheel nuts It is particularly important when attaching tires that they are firmly attached to the vehicle. Wheel nuts are often used to securely attach wheels. Find out here whether you need wheel nuts for your vehicle, when you should buy new wheel nuts and how to find the right nuts. Wheel nuts or wheel bolts - what's the difference? You've probably heard of wheel bolts in this context before. But what is the difference between wheel nuts and wheel bolts? Wheel nuts and wheel bolts basically have the same function: They are used to attach the wheel to the vehicle. But there is one important difference: Wheel nuts have an internal thread and are screwed onto the stud bolt of the wheel hub. Wheel bolts themselves have a stud bolt that is screwed into the internal thread of the wheel hub. Whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts depends on your vehicle. There is no standard rule here. Wheel nuts or wheel bolts: How to find out what you need You can tell whether your vehicle needs wheel nuts or wheel bolts by looking at the wheel hub: First of all, you should take a close look at the wheel fastenings on your car. Is there a stud with a thread on the wheel hub? Then you need wheel nuts. These are screwed onto the thread. Does the wheel hub have an internal thread? Then your vehicle needs wheel bolts that are screwed into the thread of the wheel hub. To determine whether you need wheel bolts or wheel nuts, simply take a wrench and loosen one of the fastenings. Then you can see without a doubt whether the wheel fastening has a stud or an internal thread. Then you should of course tighten them again with the prescribed torque. Replacing wheel nuts: When do you need new wheel nuts? As a rule, you can reuse wheel nuts every time you change wheels. But there are also cases in which you should replace the wheel nuts: Rust: If your wheel nuts show signs of rust, you should use new ones when changing the wheel. Otherwise, the nut can ""stick"" to the stud bolt. If that happens, you can only remove it with great effort (or, in the worst case, not at all). Damaged thread: The thread of the wheel nut should be completely intact. Otherwise, you may no longer be able to fasten the nut properly - or even damage the thread of the wheel hub. It may also happen that the wheel nut is stuck on the hub and can hardly be removed. Damage & cracks: In general, wheel nuts should be replaced if there is any kind of damage. Wheel nuts are essential for securely attaching the wheel to the vehicle. To be safe on the road, you should therefore replace them even if there is the slightest damage. Find suitable wheel nuts:Which nuts do you need? Wheel nuts are not only available in different sizes, but also in different shapes: There are basically three wheel nut shapes: Tapered seat Ball seat Flat seat Tapered seat nuts (tapered) are the most common. Wheel nuts are also available in different dimensions, shaft lengths and wrench sizes. Which wheel nuts fit your rims and your vehicle depends on the vehicle and rim. The type of nuts you need is listed in the vehicle manual for most cars. If you can't find it there, a quick search on the Internet can often help. . The right torque when tightening wheel nuts If you change your tires yourself, you should definitely pay attention to the correct torque when tightening. Why is this so important? If the torque is too low, the wheel nuts may come loose. If the torque is too high, the threads may be damaged - or in the worst case, the wheel nuts may even break off. What is the right torque? This varies from vehicle to vehicle. The right torque depends on many factors. The following points play a role in torque: Vehicle type Size of the rims Number of wheel nuts Rim type: aluminum rims or steel rims? You can find out how much torque your wheel nuts need in your vehicle manual. Wheel nuts on the vehicle: The most important things in brief If you want to change the tires on your car yourself, you need either wheel nuts or wheel bolts. Both are used to securely attach the wheel to the vehicle. Whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts depends on which car you drive. There is no standard rule. Wheel nuts are screwed onto the stud bolts of the wheel hub. If your wheel nuts are damaged or rusting, you should replace them. If they are not damaged, you can reuse wheel nuts every time you change tires. There are conical, partially spherical and flat wheel nuts. Conical wheel nuts are the standard. The right torque is important when tightening wheel nuts. You can find out how much torque your wheel nuts need in your vehicle manual. 50 kilometers after changing the tires, you should tighten the wheel nuts again to be on the safe side.The correct torque when tightening wheel nuts If you change your tires yourself, you should definitely pay attention to the correct torque when tightening. Why is this so important? If the torque is too low, the wheel nuts may come loose. If the torque is too high, the threads may be damaged - or in the worst case, the wheel nuts may even break off. What is the correct torque? This varies from vehicle to vehicle. The correct torque depends on many factors. The following points play a role in the torque: Vehicle type Size of the rims Number of wheel nuts Rim type: aluminum rims or steel rims? You can find out how much torque your wheel nuts need in your vehicle manual. Wheel nuts on the vehicle: The most important things in brief If you want to change the tires on your car yourself, you need either wheel nuts or wheel bolts. Both are used to securely attach the wheel to the vehicle. Whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts depends on which car you drive. There is no standard rule. Wheel nuts are screwed onto the stud bolts of the wheel hub. If your wheel nuts are damaged or rusting, you should replace them. If they are not damaged, you can reuse wheel nuts every time you change tires. There are conical, partially spherical and flat wheel nuts. Conical wheel nuts are the standard. The correct torque is important when tightening wheel nuts. You can find out how much torque your wheel nuts need in the vehicle manual. To be on the safe side, you should tighten the wheel nuts again 50 kilometers after changing the tire.The correct torque when tightening wheel nuts If you change your tires yourself, you should definitely pay attention to the correct torque when tightening. Why is this so important? If the torque is too low, the wheel nuts may come loose. If the torque is too high, the threads may be damaged - or in the worst case, the wheel nuts may even break off. What is the correct torque? This varies from vehicle to vehicle. The correct torque depends on many factors. The following points play a role in the torque: Vehicle type Size of the rims Number of wheel nuts Rim type: aluminum rims or steel rims? You can find out how much torque your wheel nuts need in your vehicle manual. Wheel nuts on the vehicle: The most important things in brief If you want to change the tires on your car yourself, you need either wheel nuts or wheel bolts. Both are used to securely attach the wheel to the vehicle. Whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts depends on which car you drive. There is no standard rule. Wheel nuts are screwed onto the stud bolts of the wheel hub. If your wheel nuts are damaged or rusting, you should replace them. If they are not damaged, you can reuse wheel nuts every time you change tires. There are conical, partially spherical and flat wheel nuts. Conical wheel nuts are the standard. The correct torque is important when tightening wheel nuts. You can find out how much torque your wheel nuts need in the vehicle manual. To be on the safe side, you should tighten the wheel nuts again 50 kilometers after changing the tire.You can also reuse wheel nuts every time you change tires. There are conical, partially spherical and flat wheel nuts. Conical wheel nuts are the standard. The correct torque is important when tightening the wheel nuts. You can find out how much torque your wheel nuts need in the vehicle manual. To be on the safe side, you should tighten the wheel nuts again 50 kilometers after changing the tire.You can also reuse wheel nuts every time you change tires. There are conical, partially spherical and flat wheel nuts. Conical wheel nuts are the standard. The correct torque is important when tightening the wheel nuts. You can find out how much torque your wheel nuts need in the vehicle manual. To be on the safe side, you should tighten the wheel nuts again 50 kilometers after changing the tire."
	Rim edge stickers			"Rim edge stickers are ideal for visually highlighting the rims and giving them a sporty, dynamic look. In the world of tuning, the topic of individuality is generally very important. The conversion measures and product solutions naturally relate not only to the performance configuration, the driving behavior and the entertainment system, but above all to the appearance. Changes that affect the appearance are often associated with considerable costs and time. One measure for visually upgrading a car that is very often chosen is the installation of new rims. New rims are expensive. This is especially the case when it comes to models with larger wheel diameters. However, you don't always have to buy a new rim if you want a new design. A colored rim edge is a current trend in the automotive world. This edge, intended as a contrast program, can not only be painted on, but also simply glued on. Special stickers offer an excellent opportunity to make the rims more individual with comparatively little time and cost. kfzteile24 offers over a million car parts and spare parts for all common car brands. Of course, the product range also includes rim edge stickers. Stickers for the rim edge: different designs The decorative strip can be particularly striking on black or white rims. There are now also various designs for rim edge stickers. A key distinguishing feature is the color. While neon colors, yellow and red have a particularly striking appearance, stickers in black, white or blue usually look a little more subtle. Stickers with various shapes and patterns can also be found. In the end, it is personal taste and the overall appearance of the vehicle that decides. Rim edge stickers can also be provided with a reflective layer. This feature can bring advantages in terms of safety. To make installation easier, special tools are often included with the stickers. There are also stickers that are pre-curved."
	Rim lock / rim lock			"What is a rim lock and how does it work? The name rim lock is admittedly a bit misleading. A rim lock is not a conventional lock, but more precisely a special wheel bolt or nut. The outer profile of these is round, so a normal hexagon socket wrench will not grip it. On the inside, rim locks have a special profile that can only be loosened with a corresponding socket wrench. Some rim locks also have an adjustable ring. This means that the lock cannot be opened even with a pipe wrench and a lot of force. The key for opening the rim lock is always included when you buy a rim lock. It fits perfectly on the special profile, so you can only open the rim lock with it. So keep it safe. Rim locks are available as wheel nuts or wheel bolts. Depending on the vehicle, you will need either rim locks in the form of wheel nuts or bolts. By the way: With rim locks, it is perfectly sufficient to use one lock per rim. The usual wheel fastenings can be conventional wheel nuts or bolts. Therefore, rim locks are usually available in packs of four. How secure is a rim lock? A rim lock cannot be opened with conventional tools. This prevents your rims from being stolen quickly. Particularly well-equipped thieves who specialize in stealing rims sometimes also have special tools for opening rim locks. However, removing rim locks takes a little longer and is more difficult, even with special tools, which deters many thieves. Which rim lock fits my vehicle? The first and most important question when purchasing rim locks is: do you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts? In principle, wheel nuts and wheel bolts both have the same goal: to securely attach the wheel to the vehicle. To do this, wheel nuts and wheel bolts are attached to the wheel hub of the car. However, there is one significant difference: Does your vehicle have wheel hubs with an internal thread? Then you need wheel bolts. These have a stud bolt with a thread that is screwed into the internal thread of the wheel hub. Your rim lock should then of course also consist of a wheel bolt. Does your vehicle have stud bolts with a thread on the wheel hubs? Then you need wheel nuts. Wheel nuts, in turn, have an internal thread and are screwed onto the stud bolt of the wheel hub. In this case, the rim lock should also correspond to a wheel nut. When buying rim locks, you should also make sure that the thread diameter, thread pitch and wrench size match those of the original wheel nuts or bolts. Installing rim locks:How it works Attaching rim locks is not complicated. The process is not much different from changing a normal tire. This is what you need to attach them: Impact wrench or wheel wrench to loosen the old wheel fastenings Torque wrench Rim locks step by step: Installing rim locks Loosen the old wheel fastenings. The best way to do this is to use an impact wrench or wheel wrench. Now you can put all the rim locks on. To tighten the rim locks with the torque wrench, you need the included adapter. Make sure you use the correct torque when tightening. You can read about this in your vehicle's manual. This is what you should pay attention to when tightening the rim locks To ensure that the rim locks are secure, you should also press the torque wrench firmly against the rim lock when tightening. This will prevent the positive contact between the lock and key from breaking under the load and damaging both the rim lock and the torque wrench. It is particularly dangerous if you place the key at a slight angle or shake it slightly. Many rim locks have a tread depth of just a few millimeters - unlike normal wheel bolts or nuts. This means that the risk of slipping is somewhat higher with rim locks. The most important things about rim locks in brief Rim locks are a good way to make it more difficult to steal expensive aluminum rims. If you also want to secure your rims, we have summarized the most important points for you here: Rim locks are not locks in the traditional sense. Rather, they are wheel fastenings (wheel nuts or wheel bolts) that cannot be loosened with standard tools. Rim locks replace the wheel fastenings originally attached to the vehicle. To loosen rim locks, you need the special socket wrench that fits them. When buying rim locks, you should first check whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts. This varies depending on the vehicle. In addition, the thread diameter, thread pitch and wrench size should match the values ??of the original wheel fasteners.This is what you should pay attention to when tightening the rim locks To ensure that the rim locks are secure, you should also press the torque wrench firmly against the rim lock when tightening. This will prevent the positive contact between the lock and the key from breaking under the load and damaging both the rim lock and the torque wrench. It is particularly dangerous if you place the key at a slight angle or shake it slightly. With many rim locks, the tread depth is only a few millimeters - unlike with normal wheel bolts or nuts. The risk of slipping is therefore somewhat higher with rim locks. The most important things about rim locks in brief Rim locks are a good way to make it more difficult to steal expensive aluminum rims. If you also want to secure your rims, we have summarized the most important points for you here: Rim locks are not locks in the traditional sense. Rather, they are wheel fastenings (wheel nuts or wheel bolts) that cannot be loosened with standard tools. Rim locks replace the wheel fastenings originally attached to the vehicle. To loosen rim locks, you need the special socket wrench that fits them. When buying rim locks, you should first check whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts. This varies depending on the vehicle. In addition, the thread diameter, thread pitch and wrench size should match the values ??of the original wheel fastenings.This is what you should pay attention to when tightening the rim locks To ensure that the rim locks are secure, you should also press the torque wrench firmly against the rim lock when tightening. This will prevent the positive contact between the lock and the key from breaking under the load and damaging both the rim lock and the torque wrench. It is particularly dangerous if you place the key at a slight angle or shake it slightly. With many rim locks, the tread depth is only a few millimeters - unlike with normal wheel bolts or nuts. The risk of slipping is therefore somewhat higher with rim locks. The most important things about rim locks in brief Rim locks are a good way to make it more difficult to steal expensive aluminum rims. If you also want to secure your rims, we have summarized the most important points for you here: Rim locks are not locks in the traditional sense. Rather, they are wheel fastenings (wheel nuts or wheel bolts) that cannot be loosened with standard tools. Rim locks replace the wheel fastenings originally attached to the vehicle. To loosen rim locks, you need the special socket wrench that fits them. When buying rim locks, you should first check whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts. This varies depending on the vehicle. In addition, the thread diameter, thread pitch and wrench size should match the values ??of the original wheel fastenings.In addition, the thread diameter, thread pitch and wrench size should match the values ??of the original wheel fasteners.In addition, the thread diameter, thread pitch and wrench size should match the values ??of the original wheel fasteners."
	Rim lock / rim lock	Wheel bolts		"To securely attach wheels to your car, you need either wheel bolts (often called wheel studs) or wheel nuts. They serve as a connecting element between the rim and the vehicle and are attached to the wheel hub of the car. Wheel bolt vs. wheel nut - what's the difference? Wheel bolts and wheel nuts both basically serve the same purpose: they attach the wheel to the vehicle. However, there is one major difference: the wheel bolt is a cylindrical pin with a thread. This is attached to the thread of the wheel hub. When using wheel nuts, however, there are studs on the wheel hub. Wheel nuts therefore have an internal thread and are screwed onto the corresponding studs. Which of the two you need depends on your vehicle. Depending on the wheel hub you have, you need either wheel bolts - or wheel nuts. Finding the right wheel bolts When buying wheel bolts, you should make sure that they fit your rims. Because not all wheel bolts are the same. There are different types of construction and thread, and it is important that you use the right type of wheel bolt for your wheels. Otherwise, the wheels cannot be attached properly. The (screw) bond for life In general, a distinction is made between tapered collar bolts, spherical collar bolts and flat collar bolts: The difference between these wheel bolts lies in their shape: As the name suggests, tapered collar bolts have a conical collar, spherical collar bolts have a round collar and flat collar bolts have a flat collar. The type of wheel bolt you need depends on your rims. Here too, different types are used depending on the manufacturer and model. The right thread Once you have found the right collar for your rims, you still need to find the right thread for your wheel hub. Both the size of the bolt and the pitch of the thread (the distance between two threads) are important. For example, M12 bolts are available with a pitch of 1.25, 1.5 or 1.75 millimeters. You can find out which thread your wheel bolts must have in your vehicle manual. It depends on the length If you are fitting new rims or wheel spacers to your car, you may need longer wheel bolts. Otherwise, the bolts will not fit completely into the thread and will not be able to hold the wheel sufficiently. So, when buying rims, find out early on whether you need new wheel bolts. Alternatively, there are also wheel bolts with an adjustable thread length. With these bolts, you can move the collar using washers and thus adapt the thread length to different rims or wheel spacers. Tightening wheel bolts: Make sure you use the right torque Do you change your tires yourself? Then make sure that you always tighten the wheel bolts with the right torque.If the torque is too low, the wheel bolts can come loose. If the torque is too high, the wheel bolts can break off or the thread can be damaged. The correct torque varies from vehicle to vehicle. The required torque depends on the rim size, vehicle type, number of bolts and type of rim (aluminum rims or steel rims), among other things. You can find out how much torque you need to use to fasten your wheel bolts in your vehicle manual. When do I need new wheel bolts? You can usually reuse the old wheel bolts when changing wheels. However, due to material aging, corrosion or damage, you may have to replace the wheel bolts, particularly in older vehicles. This happens, for example, in the following cases: If the wheel bolts are rusting, you should not reattach them. Otherwise they may ?seize? and can no longer be removed. You should also no longer use wheel bolts with damaged threads. If you screw them back in, you could also damage the thread in the wheel hub. The tool holder should be in perfect condition and not damaged. Otherwise, you will no longer be able to properly fasten the wheel bolts or - particularly annoying - you will no longer be able to loosen them. Of course, the wheel bolt should not be torn or damaged in any other way. But there are other reasons for changing the wheel bolts that have nothing to do with wear: If you have installed wheel spacers in your car, you will also need longer wheel bolts. You may also need longer wheel bolts for new rims. In addition, you need a different type of bolt for some rims than for the standard rims. If you install a different wheel hub than the standard one, you may need wheel bolts with a different thread. The most important things about wheel bolts in summary Wheel bolts and wheel nuts are not the same. While wheel bolts have a cylindrical pin with a thread that is screwed into the internal thread of the wheel hub, wheel nuts themselves have an internal thread and are screwed into the stud bolt of the wheel hub. Whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts depends on your vehicle. When buying wheel bolts, you should pay attention to whether you need spherical, conical or flat wheel bolts. Also pay attention to which thread you need and how long your wheel bolts need to be. The correct torque is extremely important when changing tires. Check what torque your wheel bolts need before tightening. If you buy new rims or wheel spacers, you may need longer or shorter wheel bolts. If you notice rust, damage or wear on your wheel bolts, you should stop using them.If the torque is too high, the wheel bolts can break off or the thread can be damaged. The correct torque varies from vehicle to vehicle. The required torque depends on the rim size, vehicle type, number of bolts and type of rim (aluminum rims or steel rims), among other things. You can find out how much torque you need to use to fasten your wheel bolts in your vehicle manual. When do I need new wheel bolts? You can usually reuse the old wheel bolts when changing wheels. However, due to material aging, corrosion or damage, you may have to replace the wheel bolts, particularly in older vehicles. This happens, for example, in the following cases: If the wheel bolts are rusting, you should not reattach them. Otherwise they may ?seize? and cannot be removed. You should also no longer use wheel bolts with damaged threads. If you screw them back in, you could also damage the thread in the wheel hub. The tool holder should be in perfect condition and not damaged. Otherwise, you will no longer be able to properly fasten the wheel bolts or - particularly annoying - you will no longer be able to loosen them. Of course, the wheel bolt should not be cracked or damaged in any other way. But there are other reasons for changing the wheel bolts that have nothing to do with wear: If you have installed wheel spacers in your car, you will also need longer wheel bolts. You may also need longer wheel bolts for new rims. In addition, you need a different type of bolt for some rims than for the standard rims. If you install a different wheel hub than the standard one, you may need wheel bolts with a different thread. The most important things about wheel bolts in summary Wheel bolts and wheel nuts are not the same. While wheel bolts have a cylindrical pin with a thread that is screwed into the internal thread of the wheel hub, wheel nuts themselves have an internal thread and are screwed into the stud bolts of the wheel hub. Whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts depends on your vehicle. When buying wheel bolts, you should pay attention to whether you need ball-shaped, conical or flat wheel bolts. Also pay attention to which thread you need and how long your wheel bolts need to be. The correct torque is extremely important when changing tires. Check what torque your wheel bolts need before tightening. If you buy new rims or wheel spacers, you may need longer or shorter wheel bolts. If you notice rust, damage or wear on your wheel bolts, you should stop using them.If the torque is too high, the wheel bolts can break off or the thread can be damaged. The correct torque varies from vehicle to vehicle. The required torque depends on the rim size, vehicle type, number of bolts and type of rim (aluminum rims or steel rims), among other things. You can find out how much torque you need to use to fasten your wheel bolts in your vehicle manual. When do I need new wheel bolts? You can usually reuse the old wheel bolts when changing wheels. However, due to material aging, corrosion or damage, you may have to replace the wheel bolts, particularly in older vehicles. This happens, for example, in the following cases: If the wheel bolts are rusting, you should not reattach them. Otherwise they may ?seize? and cannot be removed. You should also no longer use wheel bolts with damaged threads. If you screw them back in, you could also damage the thread in the wheel hub. The tool holder should be in perfect condition and not damaged. Otherwise, you will no longer be able to properly fasten the wheel bolts or - particularly annoying - you will no longer be able to loosen them. Of course, the wheel bolt should not be cracked or damaged in any other way. But there are other reasons for changing the wheel bolts that have nothing to do with wear: If you have installed wheel spacers in your car, you will also need longer wheel bolts. You may also need longer wheel bolts for new rims. In addition, you need a different type of bolt for some rims than for the standard rims. If you install a different wheel hub than the standard one, you may need wheel bolts with a different thread. The most important things about wheel bolts in summary Wheel bolts and wheel nuts are not the same. While wheel bolts have a cylindrical pin with a thread that is screwed into the internal thread of the wheel hub, wheel nuts themselves have an internal thread and are screwed into the stud bolts of the wheel hub. Whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts depends on your vehicle. When buying wheel bolts, you should pay attention to whether you need ball-shaped, conical or flat wheel bolts. Also pay attention to which thread you need and how long your wheel bolts need to be. The correct torque is extremely important when changing tires. Check what torque your wheel bolts need before tightening. If you buy new rims or wheel spacers, you may need longer or shorter wheel bolts. If you notice rust, damage or wear on your wheel bolts, you should stop using them.differs from vehicle to vehicle. The torque required depends on the rim size, vehicle type, number of screws and rim design (aluminum rims or steel rims), among other things. You can find out how much torque you need to use to fasten your wheel bolts in your vehicle manual. When do I need new wheel bolts? You can usually reuse the old wheel bolts when changing wheels. However, due to material aging, corrosion or damage, you may have to replace the wheel bolts, particularly in older vehicles. This happens, for example, in the following cases: If the wheel bolts are rusting, you should not reattach them. Otherwise they may ""seize"" and cannot be removed. You should also no longer use wheel bolts with damaged threads. If you screw them back in anyway, you could damage the thread in the wheel hub. The holder for the tool should be perfect and not damaged. Otherwise, you will no longer be able to properly fasten the wheel bolts or - particularly annoying - you will no longer be able to remove them. Of course, the wheel bolt should not be cracked or damaged in any other way. But there are also other reasons for changing the wheel bolts that have nothing to do with wear: If you have installed wheel spacers in your car, you will also need longer wheel bolts. You may also need longer wheel bolts for new rims. In addition, you will need a different type of bolt for some rims than for the standard rims. If you install a different wheel hub than the standard one, you may need wheel bolts with a different thread. The most important things about wheel bolts in summary Wheel bolts and wheel nuts are not the same. While wheel bolts have a cylindrical pin with a thread that is screwed into the internal thread of the wheel hub, wheel nuts themselves have an internal thread and are screwed into the stud bolts of the wheel hub. Whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts depends on your vehicle. When buying wheel bolts, you should pay attention to whether you need ball-shaped, conical or flat wheel bolts. Also pay attention to which thread you need and how long your wheel bolts need to be. The correct torque is extremely important when changing tires. Check what torque your wheel bolts need before tightening. If you buy new rims or wheel spacers, you may need longer or shorter wheel bolts. If you notice rust, damage or wear on your wheel bolts, you should stop using them.differs from vehicle to vehicle. The torque required depends on the rim size, vehicle type, number of screws and rim design (aluminum rims or steel rims), among other things. You can find out how much torque you need to use to fasten your wheel bolts in your vehicle manual. When do I need new wheel bolts? You can usually reuse the old wheel bolts when changing wheels. However, due to material aging, corrosion or damage, you may have to replace the wheel bolts, particularly in older vehicles. This happens, for example, in the following cases: If the wheel bolts are rusting, you should not reattach them. Otherwise they may ""seize"" and cannot be removed. You should also no longer use wheel bolts with damaged threads. If you screw them back in anyway, you could damage the thread in the wheel hub. The holder for the tool should be perfect and not damaged. Otherwise, you will no longer be able to properly fasten the wheel bolts or - particularly annoying - you will no longer be able to remove them. Of course, the wheel bolt should not be cracked or damaged in any other way. But there are also other reasons for changing the wheel bolts that have nothing to do with wear: If you have installed wheel spacers in your car, you will also need longer wheel bolts. You may also need longer wheel bolts for new rims. In addition, you will need a different type of bolt for some rims than for the standard rims. If you install a different wheel hub than the standard one, you may need wheel bolts with a different thread. The most important things about wheel bolts in summary Wheel bolts and wheel nuts are not the same. While wheel bolts have a cylindrical pin with a thread that is screwed into the internal thread of the wheel hub, wheel nuts themselves have an internal thread and are screwed into the stud bolts of the wheel hub. Whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts depends on your vehicle. When buying wheel bolts, you should pay attention to whether you need ball-shaped, conical or flat wheel bolts. Also pay attention to which thread you need and how long your wheel bolts need to be. The correct torque is extremely important when changing tires. Check what torque your wheel bolts need before tightening. If you buy new rims or wheel spacers, you may need longer or shorter wheel bolts. If you notice rust, damage or wear on your wheel bolts, you should stop using them.you can read about this in your vehicle manual. When do I need new wheel bolts? You can usually reuse the old wheel bolts when changing wheels. However, due to ageing of the material, corrosion or damage, it can happen, especially in older vehicles, that you have to replace the wheel bolts. This happens, for example, in the following cases: If the wheel bolts are rusting, you should not reattach them. Otherwise they may ""seize"" and can no longer be removed. You should also no longer use wheel bolts with damaged threads. If you screw them back in anyway, you can also damage the thread in the wheel hub. The holder for the tool should be in perfect condition and not damaged. Otherwise you will no longer be able to properly attach the wheel bolts or - particularly annoying - you will no longer be able to remove them. Of course, the wheel bolt should not be torn or damaged in any other way. But there are also other reasons for changing the wheel bolts that have nothing to do with wear: If you have installed wheel spacers in your car, you will also need longer wheel bolts. You may also need longer wheel bolts for new rims. In addition, you may need a different type of bolt for some rims than for the standard rims. If you install a different wheel hub than the standard one, you may need wheel bolts with a different thread. The most important things about wheel bolts in summary Wheel bolts and wheel nuts are not the same. While wheel bolts have a cylindrical pin with a thread that is screwed into the internal thread of the wheel hub, wheel nuts themselves have an internal thread and are screwed into the stud bolts of the wheel hub. Whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts depends on your vehicle. When buying wheel bolts, you should pay attention to whether you need spherical, conical or flat wheel bolts. Also pay attention to which thread you need and how long your wheel bolts need to be. The correct torque is extremely important when changing tires. Check what torque your wheel bolts need before tightening. If you buy new rims or wheel spacers, you may need longer or shorter wheel bolts. If you notice rust, damage or wear on your wheel bolts, you should stop using them.you can read about this in your vehicle manual. When do I need new wheel bolts? You can usually reuse the old wheel bolts when changing wheels. However, due to ageing of the material, corrosion or damage, it can happen, especially in older vehicles, that you have to replace the wheel bolts. This happens, for example, in the following cases: If the wheel bolts are rusting, you should not reattach them. Otherwise they may ""seize"" and can no longer be removed. You should also no longer use wheel bolts with damaged threads. If you screw them back in anyway, you can also damage the thread in the wheel hub. The holder for the tool should be in perfect condition and not damaged. Otherwise you will no longer be able to properly attach the wheel bolts or - particularly annoying - you will no longer be able to remove them. Of course, the wheel bolt should not be torn or damaged in any other way. But there are also other reasons for changing the wheel bolts that have nothing to do with wear: If you have installed wheel spacers in your car, you will also need longer wheel bolts. You may also need longer wheel bolts for new rims. In addition, you may need a different type of bolt for some rims than for the standard rims. If you install a different wheel hub than the standard one, you may need wheel bolts with a different thread. The most important things about wheel bolts in summary Wheel bolts and wheel nuts are not the same. While wheel bolts have a cylindrical pin with a thread that is screwed into the internal thread of the wheel hub, wheel nuts themselves have an internal thread and are screwed into the stud bolts of the wheel hub. Whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts depends on your vehicle. When buying wheel bolts, you should pay attention to whether you need spherical, conical or flat wheel bolts. Also pay attention to which thread you need and how long your wheel bolts need to be. The correct torque is extremely important when changing tires. Check what torque your wheel bolts need before tightening. If you buy new rims or wheel spacers, you may need longer or shorter wheel bolts. If you notice rust, damage or wear on your wheel bolts, you should stop using them.You should also stop using wheel bolts with damaged threads. If you screw them back in, you could also damage the thread in the wheel hub. The tool holder should be in perfect condition and not damaged. Otherwise, you will no longer be able to properly fasten the wheel bolts or - particularly annoying - you will no longer be able to remove them. Of course, the wheel bolt should not be torn or damaged in any other way. But there are also other reasons for changing wheel bolts that have nothing to do with wear: If you have installed wheel spacers in your car, you will also need longer wheel bolts. You may also need longer wheel bolts for new rims. In addition, you need a different type of bolt for some rims than for the standard rims. If you install a different wheel hub than the standard one, you may need wheel bolts with a different thread. The most important things about wheel bolts in a nutshell Wheel bolts and wheel nuts are not the same. While wheel bolts have a cylindrical pin with a thread that is screwed into the internal thread of the wheel hub, wheel nuts have an internal thread of their own and are screwed into the stud bolts of the wheel hub. Whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts depends on your vehicle. When buying wheel bolts, you should pay attention to whether you need spherical, conical or flat wheel bolts. Also pay attention to which thread you need and how long your wheel bolts need to be. The correct torque is extremely important when changing tires. Check what torque your wheel bolts need before tightening. If you buy new rims or wheel spacers, you may need longer or shorter wheel bolts. If you notice rust, damage or wear on your wheel bolts, you should stop using them.You should also stop using wheel bolts with damaged threads. If you screw them back in, you could also damage the thread in the wheel hub. The tool holder should be in perfect condition and not damaged. Otherwise, you will no longer be able to properly fasten the wheel bolts or - particularly annoying - you will no longer be able to remove them. Of course, the wheel bolt should not be torn or damaged in any other way. But there are also other reasons for changing wheel bolts that have nothing to do with wear: If you have installed wheel spacers in your car, you will also need longer wheel bolts. You may also need longer wheel bolts for new rims. In addition, you need a different type of bolt for some rims than for the standard rims. If you install a different wheel hub than the standard one, you may need wheel bolts with a different thread. The most important things about wheel bolts in a nutshell Wheel bolts and wheel nuts are not the same. While wheel bolts have a cylindrical pin with a thread that is screwed into the internal thread of the wheel hub, wheel nuts have an internal thread of their own and are screwed into the stud bolts of the wheel hub. Whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts depends on your vehicle. When buying wheel bolts, you should pay attention to whether you need spherical, conical or flat wheel bolts. Also pay attention to which thread you need and how long your wheel bolts need to be. The correct torque is extremely important when changing tires. Check what torque your wheel bolts need before tightening. If you buy new rims or wheel spacers, you may need longer or shorter wheel bolts. If you notice rust, damage or wear on your wheel bolts, you should stop using them.The most important things about wheel bolts Wheel bolts and wheel nuts are not the same. While wheel bolts have a cylindrical pin with a thread that is screwed into the internal thread of the wheel hub, wheel nuts themselves have an internal thread and are screwed into the stud bolts of the wheel hub. Whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts depends on your vehicle. When buying wheel bolts, you should pay attention to whether you need spherical, conical or flat wheel bolts. Also pay attention to which thread you need and how long your wheel bolts need to be. The correct torque is extremely important when changing tires. Check which torque your wheel bolts need before tightening. If you get new rims or wheel spacers, you may need longer or shorter wheel bolts. If you notice rust, damage or wear on your wheel bolts, you should stop using them.The most important things about wheel bolts Wheel bolts and wheel nuts are not the same. While wheel bolts have a cylindrical pin with a thread that is screwed into the internal thread of the wheel hub, wheel nuts themselves have an internal thread and are screwed into the stud bolts of the wheel hub. Whether you need wheel nuts or wheel bolts depends on your vehicle. When buying wheel bolts, you should pay attention to whether you need spherical, conical or flat wheel bolts. Also pay attention to which thread you need and how long your wheel bolts need to be. The correct torque is extremely important when changing tires. Check which torque your wheel bolts need before tightening. If you get new rims or wheel spacers, you may need longer or shorter wheel bolts. If you notice rust, damage or wear on your wheel bolts, you should stop using them."
	Hubcaps / wheel trims			"Parameters for the correct hubcap size To determine the size of a hubcap, it is important to find out about the nature of the wheels. There are various sequences of numbers and letters on the tires. To determine the size of the rim, the last information on the tire is taken into account. These are, for example, 155/70R13 or 185/65R14 and stand for 13-inch or 14-inch trims. These covers can be dispensed with with modern alloy rims. If winter tires are fitted, a hubcap is definitely a good idea. Plastic products made of ABS, polyamide or polypropylene are just as effective as metal hubcaps. When comparing impact and shock resistance, all versions perform equally well. The contemporary plastic hubcaps with the creative trim patterns even represent imitations of expensive aluminum rims. The two-tone or bicolor versions are also equally suitable for tuning and reliable protection."
	Snow chains			"Driving on snowy and mountainous roads in winter? Then you should definitely take snow chains with you for safety. Of course, winter tires with sufficient tread are mandatory, but: In the depths of winter, even winter tires can reach their limits. Then it can be a good idea to put on snow chains. With the right snow chains, you can travel safely even on snow-covered roads. Snow chain requirement: When do you have to put on snow chains? In Germany, you have to put on snow chains as soon as you see traffic sign 268 at the side of the road. This shows a tire with snow chains on a blue background. In Austria and Switzerland, such a sign also indicates the snow chain requirement. Do you drive a vehicle with four-wheel drive? The snow chain requirement also applies to four-wheel drive vehicles. Switzerland is an exception here, however: In Switzerland, an additional sign with the note ?4x4 vehicles excluded? can exempt four-wheel drive vehicles from the snow chain requirement. In Austria, there is another special rule: from November 1st to April 15th, all vehicles with a permissible total weight of over 3.5 tonnes must carry snow chains. This requirement does not apply to cars up to 3.5 tonnes. Nevertheless, we would recommend that you always have snow chains with you in winter conditions. Buying snow chains: What you should look out for You want to get snow chains, but are still unsure what to look out for when buying? How do you actually find suitable snow chains for your own car? And what are the differences? Rope chain, hoop chain or quick-assembly chain? First of all, it is important to know: There are different types of snow chains. There are generally three types: Rope chains Hoop chains Quick-assembly chains Rope chains are the classic. They are particularly suitable for cars with front-wheel drive. For cars with rear-wheel drive or with very narrow wheel arches, however, rope chains can be a little difficult to fit because you have to reach behind the tire to put the chains on. Hoop chains are a little more comfortable to fit. With this type of snow chain, a spring steel bracket pulls the chain mesh together behind the wheel. Bracket chains are therefore particularly recommended for vehicles with narrow wheel arches and rear-wheel drive cars, as you do not have to close the chains behind the wheel with your hands. Snow chains with a quick-mounting system are certainly the easiest to put on. They simply have to be attached to the wheel bolt and then they pull themselves on when you start driving. However, quick-mounting chains also have a catch: you usually need an adapter, which you should ideally attach to the wheel bolts at the start of the season. Therefore, quick-mounting chains are not really suitable for drivers who only need to put on snow chains occasionally.The right size of snow chains The most important thing when buying snow chains is the right size. It has to match the size of your wheels. You don't know your tire size? - No problem, you can easily read it off the tire. There is a marking similar to this: 205/55R16 The numbers stand for the following: 205 = tire width (cross-section in millimeters) 55 = ratio of height to width (in percent) 16 = diameter of the rim (in inches) You need this information to buy suitable snow chains. Now you can choose the snow chains according to your tire size. It is important that the snow chains are not too big, but should fit as tightly as possible to the tire. Otherwise the links of the chain will dangle around loosely and could damage the bodywork. It is therefore extremely important that you use snow chains that fit your tire size exactly. How to put on snow chains! To put on snow chains, you should first know where to put the snow chains. The following rule applies here: Snow chains are always put on the tire of the driven axle. So in a front-wheel drive vehicle they are put on the front, and in a rear-wheel drive vehicle they are put on the back. This also means that if you have a front-wheel drive or rear-wheel drive car, you should carry two snow chains with you. Putting on snow chains is not difficult. To be on the safe side, however, you should test putting them on at home so that it works without any problems in an emergency. Step by step: Putting on snow chains Cable chains are the standard among snow chains. As a rule, all cable chains are fitted using the same procedure: In the first step, you spread the snow chain out in front of your wheel and open the ring if it is closed. Now you can pull the chain through behind the wheel so that you only see the two ends of the ring. You can now close this ring (or the two ends) on top of the tire profile. Now push the closed ring behind the tire. The ring must no longer rest on the tire. Pull all other elements of the snow chain forward. It is important that the chain rests evenly and neatly on the tire. Now you can close the snow chain at the front. After about 100 meters you should tighten the chains again. With loop chains, installation is even a little easier. Here the ring is simply put over the tire. Both ends of the ring are placed behind the tire so that the ring can spring together. Installing snow chains on four-wheel drive vehicles Snow chains are always installed on the wheels of the drive axle. This is clear for cars with front or rear wheel drive - but what about four-wheel drive vehicles? Where do you install snow chains on vehicles with four-wheel drive? Ideally, you install snow chains on all four tires on a four-wheel drive vehicle.However, if you only have two snow chains with you, you have to decide: If you put the chains on the front, this has the advantage that you put more power on the road due to the weight of the engine. If you put the chains on the back, they help prevent the rear of the vehicle from swerving. In principle, there are no regulations on which axle you put the snow chains on a four-wheel drive vehicle. Unless the manufacturer specifies the relevant instructions. If this is the case, you should be able to read these in the vehicle's manual. Driving with snow chains - what do you have to bear in mind? The snow chains are fitted - but how do you actually drive with snow chains? What do you have to bear in mind when driving with snow chains? The most important thing is that you pay attention to the maximum permitted speed. This is 50 km/h when driving with snow chains. If it becomes bumpy or noisy while driving, it is better to stop and check whether the snow chains are properly fitted and locked. As soon as the road is clear of snow and ice again, you should remove the chains. Otherwise, this could damage both the snow chains and the road surface. It is best to deactivate the ESP and ASR when driving with snow chains: It is possible that the Electronic Stability Program (ESP) and the traction control (anti-skid control / ASR) will hinder driving with snow chains. It is therefore advisable to switch off the ESP and ASR when you are driving with snow chains. Proper care and storage of snow chains If possible, clean the snow chains briefly with water after each use and dry them. You can then oil the chains a little to prevent corrosion of the chain links. You usually get a storage box when you buy snow chains. If this is not the case, you can also store the snow chains in a plastic bag, box or similar. The most important things about snow chains in brief In Germany, you are obliged to put on snow chains as soon as traffic sign 268 indicates this (tyres with snow chains on a blue background). The maximum permitted speed when driving with snow chains is 50 km/h. Snow chains are always fitted to the wheels of the driven axle. If you have a four-wheel drive vehicle, you should ideally fit snow chains to all four tires. If your vehicle has ESP and ASR: You should deactivate these two systems when driving with snow chains. It is important that the snow chains are never too large. They must fit tightly to avoid damage to the bodywork.Basically, there are no regulations on which axle you put the snow chains on a four-wheel drive vehicle. Unless the manufacturer specifies the relevant instructions. If that is the case, you should be able to read them in the vehicle manual. Driving with snow chains - what do you have to bear in mind? The snow chains are fitted - but how do you actually drive with snow chains? What do you have to bear in mind when driving with snow chains? The most important thing is that you pay attention to the maximum permitted speed. This is because when driving with snow chains, this is 50 km/h. If it becomes bumpy or noisy while driving, it is better to stop and check that the snow chains are properly fitted and locked. As soon as the road is free of snow and ice, you should remove the chains. Otherwise, this could damage both the snow chains and the road surface. It is best to deactivate the ESP and ASR when driving with snow chains: It is possible that the Electronic Stability Program (ESP) and the traction control (anti-skid control / ASR) will hinder driving with snow chains. It is therefore advisable to switch off the ESP and ASR when you are driving with snow chains. Proper care and storage of snow chains If possible, clean the snow chains briefly with water after each use and dry them. You can then oil the chains a little to prevent corrosion of the chain links. You usually get a storage box when you buy snow chains. If this is not the case, you can also store the snow chains in a plastic bag, box or similar. The most important things about snow chains in brief In Germany, you are obliged to put on snow chains as soon as traffic sign 268 indicates this (tyres with snow chains on a blue background). The maximum permitted speed when driving with snow chains is 50 km/h. Snow chains are always fitted to the wheels of the driven axle. In an all-wheel drive vehicle, you should ideally fit snow chains to all four tires. If your vehicle has ESP and ASR: You should deactivate these two systems when driving with snow chains. It is important that the snow chains are never too big. They must fit tightly to avoid damage to the bodywork.Basically, there are no regulations on which axle you put the snow chains on a four-wheel drive vehicle. Unless the manufacturer specifies the relevant instructions. If that is the case, you should be able to read them in the vehicle manual. Driving with snow chains - what do you have to bear in mind? The snow chains are fitted - but how do you actually drive with snow chains? What do you have to bear in mind when driving with snow chains? The most important thing is that you pay attention to the maximum permitted speed. This is because when driving with snow chains, this is 50 km/h. If it becomes bumpy or noisy while driving, it is better to stop and check that the snow chains are properly fitted and locked. As soon as the road is free of snow and ice, you should remove the chains. Otherwise, this could damage both the snow chains and the road surface. It is best to deactivate the ESP and ASR when driving with snow chains: It is possible that the Electronic Stability Program (ESP) and the traction control (anti-skid control / ASR) will hinder driving with snow chains. It is therefore advisable to switch off the ESP and ASR when you are driving with snow chains. Proper care and storage of snow chains If possible, clean the snow chains briefly with water after each use and dry them. You can then oil the chains a little to prevent corrosion of the chain links. You usually get a storage box when you buy snow chains. If this is not the case, you can also store the snow chains in a plastic bag, box or similar. The most important things about snow chains in brief In Germany, you are obliged to put on snow chains as soon as traffic sign 268 indicates this (tyres with snow chains on a blue background). The maximum permitted speed when driving with snow chains is 50 km/h. Snow chains are always fitted to the wheels of the driven axle. In an all-wheel drive vehicle, you should ideally fit snow chains to all four tires. If your vehicle has ESP and ASR: You should deactivate these two systems when driving with snow chains. It is important that the snow chains are never too big. They must fit tightly to avoid damage to the bodywork.whether the snow chains are correctly fitted and locked. As soon as the road is clear of snow and ice, you should remove the chains. Otherwise, this could damage both the snow chains and the road surface. It is best to deactivate the ESP and ASR when driving with snow chains: It is possible that the Electronic Stability Program (ESP) and the traction control (anti-skid control / ASR) will hinder driving with snow chains. It is therefore advisable to switch off the ESP and ASR when you are driving with snow chains. Properly maintaining and storing snow chains If possible, clean the snow chains briefly with water after each use and dry them. You can then oil the chains a little to prevent corrosion of the chain links. You usually get a storage box when you buy snow chains. If this is not the case, you can also store the snow chains in a plastic bag, box or similar. The most important things about snow chains in brief In Germany, you are required to put on snow chains as soon as traffic sign 268 indicates this (tyres with snow chains on a blue background). The maximum permitted speed when driving with snow chains is 50 km/h. Snow chains are always fitted to the wheels of the driven axle. If you have a four-wheel drive vehicle, you should ideally fit snow chains on all four tires. If your vehicle has ESP and ASR: You should deactivate these two systems when driving with snow chains. It is important that the snow chains are never too large. They must fit tightly to avoid damage to the bodywork.whether the snow chains are correctly fitted and locked. As soon as the road is clear of snow and ice, you should remove the chains. Otherwise, this could damage both the snow chains and the road surface. It is best to deactivate the ESP and ASR when driving with snow chains: It is possible that the Electronic Stability Program (ESP) and the traction control (anti-skid control / ASR) will hinder driving with snow chains. It is therefore advisable to switch off the ESP and ASR when you are driving with snow chains. Properly maintaining and storing snow chains If possible, clean the snow chains briefly with water after each use and dry them. You can then oil the chains a little to prevent corrosion of the chain links. You usually get a storage box when you buy snow chains. If this is not the case, you can also store the snow chains in a plastic bag, box or similar. The most important things about snow chains in brief In Germany, you are required to put on snow chains as soon as traffic sign 268 indicates this (tyres with snow chains on a blue background). The maximum permitted speed when driving with snow chains is 50 km/h. Snow chains are always fitted to the wheels of the driven axle. If you have a four-wheel drive vehicle, you should ideally fit snow chains on all four tires. If your vehicle has ESP and ASR: You should deactivate these two systems when driving with snow chains. It is important that the snow chains are never too large. They must fit tightly to avoid damage to the bodywork.Snow chains are always fitted to the wheels of the driven axle. If you have a four-wheel drive vehicle, you should ideally fit snow chains to all four tires. If your vehicle has ESP and ASR: You should deactivate these two systems when driving with snow chains. It is important that the snow chains are never too large. They must fit tightly to avoid damage to the bodywork.Snow chains are always fitted to the wheels of the driven axle. If you have a four-wheel drive vehicle, you should ideally fit snow chains to all four tires. If your vehicle has ESP and ASR: You should deactivate these two systems when driving with snow chains. It is important that the snow chains are never too large. They must fit tightly to avoid damage to the bodywork."
	Valve caps			"Car valve caps generally lead a shadowy existence. Hardly anyone notices them; they are just an annoying nuisance when checking the tire pressure because they turn all your fingers black. This image is only slowly changing. The change in attitude towards dust caps began with the use of special gas mixtures in tires. A green cap is intended to signal that this tire is particularly protected against pressure loss because it contains a special gas. Labeling the caps with VL, VR, HL and HR has also proven helpful. When changing tires, it is easier to identify the correct ones the next time you fit them. The modern name is Aircaps. Today, the term Aircaps is more commonly used. The purpose is still the same, the sensitive valve is still to be protected from foreign objects, but now the focus is also on customizing the vehicle. A good example of this is the Soccer Line Aircaps, which, in the shape and color of small soccer balls, are sure to make the heart of any real soccer fan beat faster. The selection on kfzteile24 is huge: whether black, silver or colored in all the spectrums of the rainbow, made of aluminum or plastic, shaped as a ball, cone, cube or skull, these small parts have become real eye-catchers. External presentation as an individual means of expression The function of the valve caps naturally remains in the foreground. For example, with caps made of plastic, wedging due to corrosion is not possible. The same effect can be achieved by inserting plastic inserts into aluminum caps. Aircaps or car valve caps have long since become a means of self-expression. Anyone can make a statement using such attachments, which at first glance seem inconspicuous. It will be interesting to see how this small accessory will develop as new cars are equipped with the prescribed systems for controlling tire pressure. The dimensions of this component are standardized, so every cap fits every model of car. The only special role here is played by the so-called snap-in tire valves on rubber valves. The corresponding caps are, however, easily recognized by their elongated shape."
	Accesories			"Tires should always be in perfect condition. Ultimately, they have a significant impact on the driving behavior and thus on the safety of the car. The points that should always be kept in mind include the correct tire pressure and sufficient tread depth. Of course, before every trip, you should question whether the tires fitted are suitable for the climatic conditions. In winter, summer tires can pose a significant risk. Furthermore, the tires should be free of damage. At kfzteile24, the large supplier of wear parts and accessories for cars, there are various articles related to complete wheels. The range in this segment is divided into the subgroups tire pressure gauges, tire covers, tire tread depth gauges and tire pins. When it comes to tire pressure gauges, a distinction can be made between analog and digital tire pressure gauges. Both variants are suitable for measuring the air pressure in the tire. Analog tire pressure gauges generally have the advantage that they do not require a battery. Digital tire pressure gauges often offer additional functions such as an acoustic signal. Tire covers are a good choice if you want to keep your wheels clean and safe. Tire tread depth gauges can also be divided into analog and digital devices. Modern tires are often directional. A tire pen offers a simple solution for labeling both winter and summer tires. This way, you can record the position in which the tires were mounted."
Belt drive	Belt drive			"Influencing factor: belt drives Regular maintenance and replacement of old V-belts is therefore a primary undertaking that professional workshops offer in their range of services. To avoid damage to other mechanical components in the vehicle, the correct belt tension must be guaranteed at all times. The professionals adjust the belt tension taking special tolerances into account. These arise from thermal expansion and age-related material wear, which contributes to changes in the timing and engine damage. The requirements placed on belt drives in terms of fit and quality are extremely high. In order to be able to offer customers specially tailored service packages, the specialist staff at the shop's own support center are available to answer any questions that arise. Interested parties can obtain a lot of additional information there."
Belt drive	Generator freewheel			"The generator overrunning pulley, often also referred to as the freewheel pulley, is mounted on the generator drive shaft in modern cars to prevent vibrations from the crankshaft from being transmitted to the alternator. It therefore prevents torque fluctuations that could damage the generator. The decoupling is necessary because combustion engines do not generate a uniform rotary motion. Instead, the pistons are constantly accelerated and decelerated, which causes the connected crankshaft to vibrate. Flywheels dampen the effect. The generator overrunning pulley also ensures that forces can only be transmitted to the generator in one direction, which consequently leads to a quiet and low-wear belt drive. Structure of a generator overrunning pulley Two different types of freewheel pulley are used, which are known as the Overrunning Alternator Pulley (OAP) and the Overrunning Alternator Decoupler (OAD). Generator freewheel from Gates Overrunning Alternator Pulley (OAP) Inside the pulley there is a freewheel clutch that immediately blocks when forces act in the opposite direction. The heavy generator rotor is therefore only accelerated in one direction and can continue to rotate uniformly. Overrunning Alternator Decoupler (OAD) Decouplers work in a similar way, with the difference that a torsion spring stores opposing accelerations and can then transfer them to the generator to generate energy. If the negative acceleration exceeds the capacity of the spring, this freewheel pulley also blocks. Generator freewheel from febi bilstein Changing the generator freewheel You can recognize a defective generator freewheel by the uneven running of the V-ribbed belt and the corresponding noises. Due to the mass inertia of the generator, the accelerations and decelerations mainly affect the belt itself, which is stretched and compressed and ultimately also affects the deflection pulleys and the tensioning device. You can manually check the function of the freewheel pulley when the engine is switched off. Simply hold the outer disk and try to turn the clutch in both directions using the assembly tool. When turning in the direction of the belt, nothing should block it. In the other direction, the blockage must either be immediately noticeable (OAP) or the resistance must initially increase sharply until the blockage occurs (OAD). If replacement is necessary, the V-ribbed belt and the tensioning elements should also be replaced in addition to the generator freewheel. It is also advisable to replace the freewheel pulley when installing a new generator."
Belt drive	V-belt/set			"1. Difference between V-belts and V-ribbed belts The V-belt is probably the best-known drive belt of a belt drive. In everyday language, the term is often used synonymously with V-ribbed belts or flat belts, but there are significant differences between these belts. V-belts have a trapezoidal cross-section that is reminiscent of a wedge and gives the belt its name. Due to the larger contact area within the groove of a corresponding pulley, larger torques can be transmitted. At the same time, the bearings are protected due to the higher friction. Compared to a flat belt, however, the efficiency of a V-belt is somewhat lower and the wrap angles are limited. Many vehicle manufacturers therefore rely on V-ribbed belts, which enable a compact design. 2. Function of the V-belt The V-belt transmits part of the engine power to auxiliary units such as the generator or the air conditioning compressor. The cooling water pump or the servo pump can also be driven by it. The torque is taken from the drive pulley, which in turn is attached to the crankshaft. Depending on the engine, several V-belts may be used. 3. What to do if the V-belt squeaks? A squeaking V-belt should not be ignored, as the distinctive noise can be an indication of a problem. Particularly if it persists for a long time. We explain where the squeaking comes from, what you can do about it and what you should avoid. If you don't dare to work on the V-belt yourself, you should definitely visit a workshop if the squeaking continues. Before we get into the noise itself, we should point out again that the V-belt commonly used in everyday language usually refers to a V-ribbed belt. Contitech brand V-belts A V-belt can transmit high forces but is less flexible than a V-ribbed belt. 3.1 What causes the squeaking? Unpleasant noises from the V-belt always occur when the friction between the pulley and the belt is insufficient. This causes slipping and a corresponding squeaking noise. The cause is, among other things, insufficient belt tension, i.e. the belt has either stretched or any belt tensioning device is not working correctly. Moisture, grease or oil on the belt also reduces adhesion and increases the risk of slipping. Both are relatively easy to check. The weather often plays a role too. Damp, cold climates in autumn and winter encourage squeaking, as water on the belt reduces adhesion and cold stiffens the belt. In the cold season, additional consumers such as heating are often required, which increases the resistance on the generator because more electricity has to be generated.After all, the noise does not necessarily have to come from the belt. Worn tension pulleys, deflection pulleys and vibration dampers can also be responsible for the squeaking. 3.2 Finding the cause of the squeaking First, you should take a close look at the V-belt when it is not running. Is the belt flexible or porous? Are there small cracks on the outside? Is it free of grease or oil? Is it intact or are the edges torn? Check the sides in particular, because if it rubs against the side of the pulley, this could be the cause of the annoying noise. Can you see any unusual abrasion? If you can't find anything, start the engine and check the belt while it is running. Does it smell like warm rubber? Is there any abrasion visible anywhere? When you turn the engine off again, the stationary belt and all bearings and pulleys should be touchable. More than 45 C is an indication of excessive friction. The pulley should also be smooth and free of notches or wear patterns and of course the profile of the belt must match the pulley. 3.3 Check the belt tension The tension of the V-belt should of course not be too low, but too much of a good thing is also possible. If the tension is set too high, the bearings of the pulleys will wear out and the squeaking may not even be caused by the V-belt. When starting the engine in particular, you should watch to see if the pulleys or the deflection rollers are moving unusually, because the greatest force is exerted during starting. Profiles of V-belts in comparison When buying a V-belt, the correct profile should be taken into account, otherwise noises can result. (Image: CalvinTheMan @wikipedia.org (CC0 1.0)) 3.4 Does V-belt spray help? Opinions on V-belt spray vary widely. The products promise to stop squeaking in two ways. Firstly, they are used to care for and protect the belt, to keep it supple and protect it from abrasion. On the other hand, they are supposed to provide better grip. They promise relief, especially for weather-related noises. However, if the noise persists, a visit to a workshop is essential. We strongly advise against using household remedies such as soap on the rotating belt. This is useless and is also dangerous. 4. Changing the V-belt Changing the V-belt can vary greatly depending on the vehicle and engine, i.e. depending on the specific situation, you may first have to make some space. As soon as you can easily reach the V-belt, loosen the tensioning device. These are usually tension rollers that can be locked in place with a small mandrel. The belt is then removed and replaced with the new V-belt.Pay attention to the course and correct positioning of the profile in the pulleys. V-belts generally do not have a direction of rotation. If the tensioning device is defective or the bearing of a pulley is responsible for the noise, these parts must of course also be replaced. A V-belt set contains the necessary material. As soon as the belt is put back on, the tension roller can be loosened and the V-belt tensioned. You can check whether everything is working by starting the engine."
Belt drive	V-belt/set	V-ribbed belt		"The V-ribbed belt is often colloquially referred to simply as a V-belt, although as a further development it has significantly different properties. It is also easy to distinguish them because the lengthwise ribs that give it its name are clearly visible. The only thing the two belts have in common is their function as drive belts within a belt drive. In a car, the V-ribbed belt supplies the generator, the hydraulic pump for the water cooling system, the servo pump or the compressor for the air conditioning system with energy. This is taken as torque from the crankshaft to which the drive belt pulley is attached. V-ribbed belt from Blue Print V-ribbed belt from Contitech Structure of a V-ribbed belt A V-ribbed belt consists of a cover fabric with an integrated tension cord, which can be made of polyamide and polyester, for example. An adhesion mixture is usually applied to this, which holds the ribs made of synthetic rubber. The rib walls ultimately form the frictional connection between the V-ribbed belt and the pulleys. Due to the constant tensile load during operation, the material stretches and the V-ribbed belt lengthens over time. Within certain tolerances, this elongation is compensated for by tensioning devices, which use spring force to keep the belt constantly taut anyway. However, you should pay attention to the manufacturer's replacement intervals. Wear and tear also plays a role in V-ribbed belts. Check the back regularly. It must not be porous or cracked. The ribs themselves should also be free of irregular signs of wear. What to do if your V-ribbed belt squeaks? A squeaking V-ribbed belt is initially an indication of unusual friction. This can be due to many factors, but the belt tension should always be checked first. The belt should be tight so that it does not slip, but also not have too much tension, as this puts strain on the pulley bearings and can also lead to squeaking. Also check whether the tensioning device is movable. If the belt or pulley shows unusual wear or gets hot during operation, the profile of the ribs may not be right. In cold temperatures and wet conditions, it is not unusual for the V-ribbed belt to make noise. The moisture reduces the grip, the cold stiffens the belt and, last but not least, the resistance on the generator often increases when the heater is switched on. A V-ribbed belt that squeaks continuously should be replaced in any case."
Belt drive	V-belt/set	V-ribbed belt set		"If the V-ribbed belt needs to be replaced, it can be worthwhile to take the opportunity to also replace the tensioner pulley, drive belt pulley or generator freewheel. You can get spare parts particularly cheaply and from a single source if you buy a V-ribbed belt kit. These packages are put together by the respective manufacturer, so you can be sure that you are getting parts that are compatible with each other. When buying a V-ribbed belt kit, it is important to check the scope of delivery carefully before ordering, because V-ribbed belt kits are available in various configurations and the example image does not always correspond to the parts list. Also keep an eye on the engine code, which can vary within a vehicle model."
Belt drive	V-belt/set	Belt tensioner (tensioning unit)		"A belt tensioner, also called a tensioning unit or tension pulley, has the task of keeping the V-ribbed belt of a belt drive under tension. Only when the V-ribbed belt is tensioned can it forcefully transfer the torque generated by the engine from the crankshaft to the auxiliary units. If, on the other hand, it is too loose, it begins to slip on the pulley, which often manifests itself in an unpleasant squeaking noise. If the belt tension is too low, wear and tear on all components involved increases as friction increases. Eventually, at some point, no power is transmitted at all, causing the generator, servo pump, water pump or air conditioning compressor to fail. In addition to its tensioning function, the belt tensioner can also act as a deflection or guide pulley to increase the wrap angle for the following pulley. Such serpentines allow more units to be driven with just one V-ribbed belt. Belt tensioner from febi bilstein Belt tensioner for a Citro n Structure and function of a belt tensioner A belt tensioner usually consists of a holder that is attached to the engine, a bracket with a damping element and a pulley. The tension of the belt tensioner is usually defined by a spring that counteracts the pressure of the V-ribbed belt. The belt tensioner is necessary because the V-ribbed belt stretches over time due to the constant tension and the difference must be compensated. The belt tensioner also minimizes vibrations caused by uneven rotational movements of the crankshaft so that the auxiliary units are not damaged. Despite the belt tensioner, the V-ribbed belt should be checked and replaced regularly in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions."
Belt drive	V-belt/set	Vibration damper		"The V-ribbed belt drives the car's auxiliary units by transmitting the rotational movement of the crankshaft and thus the torque of the engine. To ensure that this happens as efficiently as possible and wear is minimized, the belt tension is of crucial importance. Tension pulleys or belt tensioning units ensure that the belt can run force-fittingly on the pulleys and that it does not slip. Depending on the manufacturer, the tensioning devices can be supplemented with vibration dampers, which function in a similar way to the chassis. Vibration damper for the V-ribbed belt Task of the vibration damper As the name suggests, the task of a vibration damper is to ensure that vibrations can be reduced more quickly. This is usually done by hydraulic dampers, in which a piston has to push or suck oil through small holes. The resistance converts vibration energy into heat. The principle is the same as that of a shock absorber, because the V-ribbed belt can also vibrate. Keeping it running as smoothly as possible in all driving situations and under all load conditions will benefit the service life of the belt and pulleys. However, the tensioning device is responsible for tensioning the belt."
Belt drive	V-belt/set	Clamping arm		"A tension arm, also called a belt tensioner or tension pulley depending on the manufacturer, has the task of maintaining the tension of the V-ribbed belt. Only when the drive belt is tight can it forcefully transfer the engine's torque to the auxiliary units. To do this, a pulley is mounted on the crankshaft, the V-ribbed belt is inserted and wound around the pulleys of the air conditioning compressor, the servo pump or the cooling water pump. As the most important unit, the V-ribbed belt also drives the generator, which supplies the electrical consumers with energy and charges the battery. The tension arm presses against the V-ribbed belt using spring force and keeps it under tension. The movable bearing of the tension arm compensates for vibrations caused by the uneven rotation of the crankshaft and compensates for elongation of the belt. This stretches over time due to the constant tensile load."
Belt drive	V-belt/set	Tension pulley		"The term tension pulley is used synonymously for the terms belt tensioner and tension arm, after all they refer to the same component. The tension pulley is responsible for keeping the V-ribbed belt under tension so that it can transmit the torque of the crankshaft to the auxiliary units of a car. The air conditioning compressor, the servo pump, the cooling water pump and the generator are driven by the V-ribbed belt, among others. This is threaded through and must be tight to avoid friction and noise. Since the V-ribbed belt is constantly under tension and subjected to a constant tensile load, it stretches over time. The tension pulley compensates for the elongation. Another task of the tension pulley is to dampen vibrations. Since the engine cannot generate a uniform rotary motion via the crankshaft, vibrations are transmitted to the V-ribbed belt. They disrupt the traction and could damage the auxiliary units. The tension pulley can compensate for such vibrations thanks to its spring force and convert the vibration energy into heat."
Belt drive	V-belt/set	Deflection/guide roller		"In the context of the belt drive, deflection pulleys are an important link between two auxiliary units. They are also called guide pulleys and their job is to increase the wrap angle of the V-ribbed belt on the following pulley. This means nothing other than the necessity for the V-ribbed belt to have a certain contact area in order to be able to drive the respective units. If the wrap angle is too small, the adhesion may not be sufficient to overcome the initial resistance and friction occurs. The deflection pulleys are also called guide pulleys because they determine the path of the belt, which winds its way in serpentines from the pulley on the crankshaft to the generator, servo pump, air conditioning compressor and water pump, among others. The pulleys are made of both metal and plastic. Deflection pulleys generally run with little wear, but can be affected by excessive belt tension because the bearings are subjected to a lot of strain. This can also manifest itself in a squeaking noise."
Belt drive	V-ribbed belt/set			"The V-ribbed belt is a further development of the V-belt and has largely replaced its predecessor in the automotive sector. The ribs that give the belt its name and run along the belt's length increase the contact surface with the pulleys and allow smaller wrap angles or the transmission of greater forces. As the most important part of a belt drive, the V-ribbed belt is responsible for driving auxiliary units such as the generator, the air conditioning compressor, the servo pump or the cooling water pump. Due to its low height, a V-ribbed belt is very flexible and can be bent to the side facing away from the ribs using pulleys. This is used to increase the wrap angle and ensure traction with the following pulley. Thanks to the serpentine guidance, a V-ribbed belt can drive more units than a V-belt and thus increase driving comfort. V-ribbed belts, belt tensioners and idler pulleys To ensure a force-fitting and low-vibration belt drive, the V-ribbed belt is usually held at the correct tension by a belt tensioner. This is done by means of spring force inside the tensioning unit. The belt tensioner compensates for the elongation of the V-ribbed belt, which results from the constant tensile stress. At kfzteile24 you can either buy the complete tensioning unit or just opt ??for the tension arm or the tension pulley, depending on which part is defective. You can also order the V-ribbed belt itself as an individual belt or buy it as a V-ribbed belt set with tension pulley. Idler pulleys, also called guide pulleys, complete our range. Belt drive with a V-ribbed belt The V-ribbed belt can transmit higher forces than a V-belt. (Image: Gates) Costs and changing the V-ribbed belt V-ribbed belts are usually cheap and cost between 5 and 20 euros, but changing them usually involves some effort because modern engines offer little space. Depending on the workshop's hourly rate, replacing the V-ribbed belt can cost around 150-200 euros in 2-3 hours. However, a constantly squeaking V-belt should be replaced despite the cost. Alternatively, if you have a little manual skill, you can replace it yourself. Using a VW Golf IV as an example, the kfzteile24 professional mechanics demonstrate how to do it. Make sure that you follow the intended belt path and pay attention to the direction in which the belt runs. When you buy a V-ribbed belt set, all tension and idler pulleys can also be replaced."
Belt drive	V-ribbed belt/set	V-ribbed belt		"The V-ribbed belt is often colloquially referred to simply as a V-belt, although as a further development it has significantly different properties. It is also easy to distinguish them because the lengthwise ribs that give it its name are clearly visible. The only thing the two belts have in common is their function as drive belts within a belt drive. In a car, the V-ribbed belt supplies the generator, the hydraulic pump for the water cooling system, the servo pump or the compressor for the air conditioning system with energy. This is taken as torque from the crankshaft to which the drive belt pulley is attached. V-ribbed belt from Blue Print V-ribbed belt from Contitech Structure of a V-ribbed belt A V-ribbed belt consists of a cover fabric with an integrated tension cord, which can be made of polyamide and polyester, for example. An adhesion mixture is usually applied to this, which holds the ribs made of synthetic rubber. The rib walls ultimately form the frictional connection between the V-ribbed belt and the pulleys. Due to the constant tensile load during operation, the material stretches and the V-ribbed belt lengthens over time. Within certain tolerances, this elongation is compensated for by tensioning devices, which use spring force to keep the belt constantly taut anyway. However, you should pay attention to the manufacturer's replacement intervals. Wear and tear also plays a role in V-ribbed belts. Check the back regularly. It must not be porous or cracked. The ribs themselves should also be free of irregular signs of wear. What to do if your V-ribbed belt squeaks? A squeaking V-ribbed belt is initially an indication of unusual friction. This can be due to many factors, but the belt tension should always be checked first. The belt should be tight so that it does not slip, but also not have too much tension, as this puts strain on the pulley bearings and can also lead to squeaking. Also check whether the tensioning device is movable. If the belt or pulley shows unusual wear or gets hot during operation, the profile of the ribs may not be right. In cold temperatures and wet conditions, it is not unusual for the V-ribbed belt to make noise. The moisture reduces the grip, the cold stiffens the belt and, last but not least, the resistance on the generator often increases when the heater is switched on. A V-ribbed belt that squeaks continuously should be replaced in any case."
Belt drive	V-ribbed belt/set	V-ribbed belt set		"If the V-ribbed belt needs to be replaced, it can be worthwhile to take the opportunity to also replace the tensioner pulley, drive belt pulley or generator freewheel. You can get spare parts particularly cheaply and from a single source if you buy a V-ribbed belt kit. These packages are put together by the respective manufacturer, so you can be sure that you are getting parts that are compatible with each other. When buying a V-ribbed belt kit, it is important to check the scope of delivery carefully before ordering, because V-ribbed belt kits are available in various configurations and the example image does not always correspond to the parts list. Also keep an eye on the engine code, which can vary within a vehicle model."
Belt drive	V-ribbed belt/set	Belt tensioner (tensioning unit)		"A belt tensioner, also called a tensioning unit or tension pulley, has the task of keeping the V-ribbed belt of a belt drive under tension. Only when the V-ribbed belt is tensioned can it forcefully transfer the torque generated by the engine from the crankshaft to the auxiliary units. If, on the other hand, it is too loose, it begins to slip on the pulley, which often manifests itself in an unpleasant squeaking noise. If the belt tension is too low, wear and tear on all components involved increases as friction increases. Eventually, at some point, no power is transmitted at all, causing the generator, servo pump, water pump or air conditioning compressor to fail. In addition to its tensioning function, the belt tensioner can also act as a deflection or guide pulley to increase the wrap angle for the following pulley. Such serpentines allow more units to be driven with just one V-ribbed belt. Belt tensioner from febi bilstein Belt tensioner for a Citro n Structure and function of a belt tensioner A belt tensioner usually consists of a holder that is attached to the engine, a bracket with a damping element and a pulley. The tension of the belt tensioner is usually defined by a spring that counteracts the pressure of the V-ribbed belt. The belt tensioner is necessary because the V-ribbed belt stretches over time due to the constant tension and the difference must be compensated. The belt tensioner also minimizes vibrations caused by uneven rotational movements of the crankshaft so that the auxiliary units are not damaged. Despite the belt tensioner, the V-ribbed belt should be checked and replaced regularly in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions."
Belt drive	V-ribbed belt/set	Vibration damper		"The V-ribbed belt drives the car's auxiliary units by transmitting the rotational movement of the crankshaft and thus the torque of the engine. To ensure that this happens as efficiently as possible and wear is minimized, the belt tension is of crucial importance. Tension pulleys or belt tensioning units ensure that the belt can run force-fittingly on the pulleys and that it does not slip. Depending on the manufacturer, the tensioning devices can be supplemented with vibration dampers, which function in a similar way to the chassis. Vibration damper for the V-ribbed belt Task of the vibration damper As the name suggests, the task of a vibration damper is to ensure that vibrations can be reduced more quickly. This is usually done by hydraulic dampers, in which a piston has to push or suck oil through small holes. The resistance converts vibration energy into heat. The principle is the same as that of a shock absorber, because the V-ribbed belt can also vibrate. Keeping it running as smoothly as possible in all driving situations and under all load conditions will benefit the service life of the belt and pulleys. However, the tensioning device is responsible for tensioning the belt."
Belt drive	V-ribbed belt/set	Clamping arm		"A tension arm, also called a belt tensioner or tension pulley depending on the manufacturer, has the task of maintaining the tension of the V-ribbed belt. Only when the drive belt is tight can it forcefully transfer the engine's torque to the auxiliary units. To do this, a pulley is mounted on the crankshaft, the V-ribbed belt is inserted and wound around the pulleys of the air conditioning compressor, the servo pump or the cooling water pump. As the most important unit, the V-ribbed belt also drives the generator, which supplies the electrical consumers with energy and charges the battery. The tension arm presses against the V-ribbed belt using spring force and keeps it under tension. The movable bearing of the tension arm compensates for vibrations caused by the uneven rotation of the crankshaft and compensates for elongation of the belt. This stretches over time due to the constant tensile load."
Belt drive	V-ribbed belt/set	Tension pulley		"The term tension pulley is used synonymously for the terms belt tensioner and tension arm, after all they refer to the same component. The tension pulley is responsible for keeping the V-ribbed belt under tension so that it can transmit the torque of the crankshaft to the auxiliary units of a car. The air conditioning compressor, the servo pump, the cooling water pump and the generator are driven by the V-ribbed belt, among others. This is threaded through and must be tight to avoid friction and noise. Since the V-ribbed belt is constantly under tension and subjected to a constant tensile load, it stretches over time. The tension pulley compensates for the elongation. Another task of the tension pulley is to dampen vibrations. Since the engine cannot generate a uniform rotary motion via the crankshaft, vibrations are transmitted to the V-ribbed belt. They disrupt the traction and could damage the auxiliary units. The tension pulley can compensate for such vibrations thanks to its spring force and convert the vibration energy into heat."
Belt drive	V-ribbed belt/set	Deflection/guide roller		"In the context of the belt drive, deflection pulleys are an important link between two auxiliary units. They are also called guide pulleys and their job is to increase the wrap angle of the V-ribbed belt on the following pulley. This means nothing other than the necessity for the V-ribbed belt to have a certain contact area in order to be able to drive the respective units. If the wrap angle is too small, the adhesion may not be sufficient to overcome the initial resistance and friction occurs. The deflection pulleys are also called guide pulleys because they determine the path of the belt, which winds its way in serpentines from the pulley on the crankshaft to the generator, servo pump, air conditioning compressor and water pump, among others. The pulleys are made of both metal and plastic. Deflection pulleys generally run with little wear, but can be affected by excessive belt tension because the bearings are subjected to a lot of strain. This can also manifest itself in a squeaking noise."
Belt drive	Pulley			"In addition to a V-belt or V-ribbed belt, the belt drive also requires pulleys so that the torque generated by the engine can be transmitted. The drive pulley is firmly mounted on the crankshaft and rotates according to its speed. The belt, which rests on the pulley in a force-fitting manner, is driven in the direction of rotation and can in turn supply units such as the generator, the cooling water pump, the air conditioning compressor or the servo pump with energy. Pulleys generally work with little wear because there is little friction. This is different if the belt tension is too low. The V-ribbed belt slips and an annoying squeaking noise occurs. If the problem is ignored, the pulley can also be damaged in the long term. An incorrect rib profile on the belt can also wear out a pulley due to increased friction. The term pulley also includes all pulleys in which the V-ribbed belt runs, regardless of whether the pulley is on the water pump, the crankshaft or the servo pump. Only the generator has a special freewheel pulley (generator freewheel) to ensure a uniform rotational movement."
Belt drive	Timing belt/set			"The timing belt is a very special drive belt that, unlike the V-belt or V-ribbed belt, transmits the torque in a form-fitting manner. The teeth prevent slippage, so that the crankshaft and the camshaft(s) cannot rotate relative to each other. This ensures that the inlet and exhaust valves of the cylinders open and close again at the right time. The timing belt is therefore also called a timing belt. Its favorable design and the fact that it does not require oil lubrication make the timing belt an inexpensive alternative to timing chains and gears. Structure of the timing belt The belt drive is simple and consists of the timing belt and pulleys, a tension pulley and deflection pulleys. The water pump is often integrated as the timing belt can transmit high forces. It should always be replaced when changing it, as the seal does not get any better over time. The timing belt itself consists of an outer tension cord made of glass or aramid fibers. Steel is also used less frequently. This tension cord transmits the actual forces. The fibers are embedded in an elastomer made of rubber, caoutchouc or plastic. The inside is characterized by the eponymous teeth, which are made of the same material. Timing belt set with water pump from Gates When you buy a timing belt set, the water pump is usually included. (Image: Gates) Features of a timing belt Timing belts are inexpensive to manufacture and purchase and run very quietly. Their low mass also enables high speeds. Since they only require a small amount of pre-tension, they hardly stretch during their service life. In addition, changing a timing belt tends to be easier than changing a timing chain. Timing belts also have disadvantages, because while timing chains stretch and make noise and the engine run unevenly, timing belts can break. This can cause serious engine damage that can only be prevented by changing them regularly. Depending on the manufacturer, timing belts are usually replaced every 60,000 to 120,000 kilometers. Our recommendation is to comply with the prescribed service intervals and to minimize costs by purchasing a timing belt set online. Since broken timing belts have repeatedly caused problems in the past, you should pay attention to quality and also consider changing the timing belt sooner. Only have the timing belt changed by experts The high workshop costs for changing a timing belt and the low price of the belt itself often lead to ambitious hobby mechanics doing the work themselves. However, due to the many potential sources of error and the dramatic consequences, we advise you toleave the timing belt replacement to an experienced specialist workshop. As well as experience, the replacement usually requires special tools and an incorrectly fitted timing belt usually means the end of the engine (except for freewheelers). The piston could hit one of the open valves, which can only be repaired with a complete overhaul. However, repairing or buying a new engine often exceeds the value of the car. Even without such drastic consequences, there is a risk of performance losses if, for example, the gearing does not fit 100% or the crankshaft and camshaft(s) turn by just one tooth without a locking tool. Counting the teeth and observing the correct installation direction are usually a matter of course for the workshop."
Belt drive	Timing belt/set	Belt tensioner (tensioning unit)		"Since the timing belt is used to control the valves in combustion engines, the power transmission must not be interrupted under any circumstances. A timing belt tensioner keeps the timing belt taut so that it does not skip or slip. If it were to do this, the timing would no longer be correct and, in the worst case, the pistons would touch the valves. Depending on the extent of the damage, such an incident could mean the end of the engine. However, even in the best case scenario, time-consuming and costly repairs are the result. The timing belt tensioner also has the function of dampening vibrations that are transmitted from the crankshaft to the timing belt drive via the timing belt pulley. Depending on the manufacturer, timing belt tensioners are also called tension rollers because they are rollers that press against the timing belt with spring tension."
Belt drive	Timing belt/set	Vibration damper		"The vibration damper of a tension pulley has two main tasks within a toothed belt drive. Firstly, the toothed belt is brought to the intended tension in order to transfer the torque of the crankshaft to the camshaft in a force-fitting and form-fitting manner. Since the toothed belt takes on a control function for the engine via its connection to the camshaft, teeth must not skip. Secondly, vibrations that are transferred to the toothed belt drive due to rotational irregularities of the crankshaft must be prevented. The rapid changes between positive and negative accelerations could otherwise affect the components of the belt drive involved and the toothed belt itself. Belt tension dampers absorb the vibrations of the toothed belt via the tension pulley and convert them into heat. As a result, the belt runs more smoothly and the risk of incorrect timing is reduced."
Belt drive	Timing belt/set	Clamping arm		"The timing belt is a cheap alternative to the positive connection between the crankshaft and camshaft or camshafts. As a typical drive belt, it combines the advantages of a V-belt with those of the timing chain. It is quiet and, thanks to its low mass, also allows high speeds. No complex lubrication is required and instead of expensive chain tensioners that work using oil pressure, a simple tension arm is sufficient. The tension arm is screwed onto the engine and consists of a holder and a roller. Tension arm from Ina for Audi A6 Function and replacement of the tension arm The roller of the tension arm is pressed against the outside of the timing belt, whereby its teeth form a positive connection with the pulleys. This is necessary because the timing belt is not only responsible for transmitting power, for example to the water pump, but as a timing belt also influences the opening of the intake and exhaust valves. If the synchronization between the crankshaft and camshaft is disrupted, this can have catastrophic effects on the engine. This means that power losses are inevitable and a total failure of the unit is also possible. To prevent this from happening, the timing belt and its tension must be checked regularly. In any case, adhere to the replacement intervals specified by the manufacturer and replace the tensioner arm and, if necessary, the water pump at the same time. A timing belt kit suitable for your car usually contains all the parts."
Belt drive	Timing belt/set	Tension pulley		"A tension pulley for the timing belt keeps it under tension. This is necessary because the timing belt takes on a control function for the opening and closing of the cylinder valves and must not under any circumstances skip or even slip down. If this were to happen, a piston could hit the open valve and major engine damage would be the result. For the same reason, work on the timing belt and the tension pulley is tricky and should only be carried out by experienced personnel in a workshop. The tension pulley is sometimes also referred to as a belt tensioner and presses against the timing belt using a spring and a set preload. This sits positively on the timing belt pulleys and can therefore precisely transfer the torque of the crankshaft to the camshaft. Depending on the design, tension pulleys must be readjusted if the timing belt stretches due to the tensile stress and the preload range is exhausted. Depending on the model, this can be done by rotating a movable part around the center."
Belt drive	Timing belt/set	Deflection/guide roller		"Timing belts are typical drive belts that can be redirected by guide rollers. The corresponding rollers are therefore also called deflection rollers. The task of such a guide roller is to increase the wrap angle on the next pulley so that the timing belt has as large a contact surface as possible. The positive connection between the belt and the pulley over as large an area as possible prevents the belt from slipping or skipping and enables greater power transmission. Trouble-free operation plays a special role in the timing belt, as it is responsible for the valve control of the cylinders. If the timing belt is incorrectly controlled, e.g. if the timing belt breaks or if teeth skip, the engine could be irreparably damaged. Timing belts, tensioners and guide rollers should be replaced at the intervals specified by the manufacturer."
Belt drive	Timing belt/set	Timing belt		"Timing belts for driving the camshaft Timing belts have many advantages over other systems for driving the camshaft due to their low manufacturing costs and simple structure. They run quietly, have a low mass, usually do not require lubrication and therefore do not need a separate housing. They also allow for tighter wrap angles and only increase in length imperceptibly over the course of their service life, so that precise control is always possible. However, timing belts are not as resilient as chain drives or spur gear drives, for example, and are therefore not usually used in high-performance engines. Structure of a timing belt A timing belt is a plastic belt with rubber or plastic teeth formed on the inside. The positive fit means that high forces can be transmitted and no slippage is possible. This property is important so that the camshaft can open and close the valves precisely. The actual power transmission is carried out by a tension cord made of glass cord or aramid fibers embedded in the timing belt. The inside is made of abrasion-resistant fabric. The timing belt is usually only protected from external influences by a cover and must therefore be corrosion-resistant and must not deform even when exposed to heat. When changing it, it is essential to follow the manufacturer's procedure to avoid any misalignment."
Belt drive	Timing belt/set	Timing belt cover		"Since the timing belt is very important due to the valve control, it should be protected as well as possible. This is usually done by a timing belt cover. This is a fitting part made of plastic that is molded for a specific car model. The inexpensive timing belt cover prevents water, dirt or operating materials such as oil, fuel, coolant or brake fluid from coming into contact with the timing belt and attacking its surface or negatively affecting its adhesion to the timing belt pulleys. Stones and dirt that are thrown up are also reliably held back by a timing belt cover. Finally, the timing belt cover also has a protective function for people, as it effectively prevents anyone from reaching into the timing belt or getting caught while it is running. Always change the timing belt cover if it has obvious cracks or is partially broken. Minor damage, on the other hand, is usually not a problem."
Belt drive	Timing belt/set	Timing belt set		"If it becomes necessary to replace the timing belt, it may be advisable to take the opportunity to replace other parts of the belt drive as well. After all, replacing the timing belt is relatively complex. Replace the idler pulleys, guide pulleys, tension pulleys or tensioning units at the same time to ensure you have peace of mind for a long time, as these parts are also subject to wear. Many manufacturers offer sets to suit your car in the form of a timing belt kit. Such a timing belt kit can also include the cooling water pump, for example, if it is driven by the timing belt and not the V-ribbed belt. We recommend having this work carried out by a qualified expert in a specialist workshop, as the timing belt controls the cylinder valves by driving the camshaft. There must be no interruptions, incorrect adjustments or slipping on the timing belt pulleys. Otherwise there is a risk of serious engine damage if, for example, the piston and valve collide."
Belt drive	Accessories/Small parts			"In addition to V-ribbed belts, timing belts and tension pulleys, kfzteile24 also offers numerous inexpensive small parts that you can buy cheaply online in our shop. These include washers for the pulley on the crankshaft or suitable screws for the tension pulley. You usually only notice how important these small parts are when you need them. So you should stock up on them in good time. As a workshop in particular, it is worth ordering the inexpensive small parts in stock, as they can also be stored without any problems."
Seasonal items	Seasonal items | Frost protection			"Statistically speaking, most accidents in winter happen within the first 15 minutes of setting off, and that's no wonder. When it gets really cold outside, you not only need to pay special attention on the road, you should also pay attention to the vehicle. This is not just a question of safety, but also of convenience, because a vehicle that is suitable for winter is more pleasant to operate and offers unlimited comfort. Modern antifreeze not only serves its purpose, but also takes care of the vehicle. Getting into the vehicle comfortably It starts with the door lock: important items that are needed for de-icing are usually in the vehicle. The window heating can also be operated from there. But if the door is frozen, even the key remote control is no longer of any use. This is where antifreeze for door seals helps. It not only keeps the seals supple and increases their longevity, but also effectively prevents the vehicle doors from freezing shut. If you want to get your vehicle fleet up to operating temperature before you get up, use a windscreen heater with a timer. Mounted on the inside of the vehicle using suction cups, it is easy to attach, can be removed without leaving a trace and the window is free of ice in just a few minutes, even before the vehicle owner leaves the house or starts work. A vehicle cover provides additional security. It can be easily removed before use and removes snow and ice from the vehicle at the same time. If it should ever become necessary to scrape ice, your hand will stay nice and warm in the ice scraper's integrated glove. Free and safe journey You are warmly welcomed inside the vehicle with seat heating, which can be retrofitted into any vehicle and does not interfere with side airbags. To avoid any nasty surprises while driving, the radiator antifreeze prevents freezing. With the right winter set, vehicle owners also save money and get equipment that is perfectly tailored to their vehicle fleet. Even if it has to be done quickly, kfzteile24 is the right contact. More than 90 percent of the accessories are available within 24 hours. If you have any questions, the specialist staff at the kfzteile24 support center will be happy to help."
Seasonal items	Windscreen antifreeze			"Windshield antifreeze: Clear visibility in winter When winter comes and temperatures drop, you should replace your car's windshield washer fluid with windshield antifreeze. The windshield washer fluid that served you well in the summer can freeze in sub-zero temperatures and make it difficult to see the road. Ice crystals may be beautiful, but they shouldn't be admired from the driver's seat. Windshield antifreeze prevents the water in the windshield washer system and spray nozzles from freezing and allows you to see clearly even in frosty temperatures. Windshield antifreeze is not only very useful, but also required by law in accordance with the Road Traffic Act. Finding the right windshield antifreeze We offer windshield antifreeze in various versions, namely: Antifreeze concentrates to which you have to add water yourself. The best mixing ratio between water and antifreeze depends on the product in question and the concentration of the windshield antifreeze. Only a few concentrates can be used undiluted. Premixed windshield antifreeze, which already has the right ratio between water and antifreeze. Both variants have their advantages and disadvantages. Pre-mixed products are usually sold in smaller containers and the antifreeze is already set. Mixing windshield antifreeze yourself is less convenient, but you can decide for yourself what goes into your car and what sub-zero temperatures the antifreeze should be able to withstand. Before using windshield antifreeze, you can check whether you have chosen the right mixing ratio. To do this, you need an antifreeze tester that absorbs the antifreeze fluid and displays the temperature, which should ideally be between minus 20 and minus 30 degrees. Even if it rarely gets that cold in this country, to be on the safe side, the antifreeze should also be able to withstand higher sub-zero temperatures. Before you decide on a windshield antifreeze, find out beforehand whether the product is suitable for your vehicle. With the variety of windshield antifreeze, it can be difficult to make the right choice. These criteria will help you with your purchase decision: Can the concentrate be added undiluted to the windshield washer system,Do you have to add water yourself or is it a pre-mixed product? How many liters does the canister hold and how long does the antifreeze last? Will you use up the windshield antifreeze before its expiration date? Up to what sub-zero temperatures does the antifreeze work? Does the windshield antifreeze contain a scent and is that important to you? How thoroughly can the antifreeze clean the windshield and remove dirt? Does the windshield antifreeze leave streaks? You can tell at first glance whether it is a windshield antifreeze concentrate or a ready-made mixture and how big the container is. Information on the ingredients or the sub-zero temperatures up to which the antifreeze works can be found in the manufacturer's description. Advantages of windshield antifreeze It's obvious why you need windshield antifreeze in winter instead of simple windshield washer fluid. In addition to antifreeze, many products have a number of other advantages to offer: Depending on the concentration and ingredients, even stubborn dirt can be removed from the windshield. Protection against calcification prevents the nozzles and lines in the windshield washer system from becoming blocked. Some products also have a scent, so that a pleasant scent spreads through the car interior when the windshield washer system is used. Filling up windshield washer antifreeze Filling up windshield washer fluid with antifreeze is also extremely simple: Open the hood of your car. The container for the windshield washer fluid is usually made of transparent plastic. The cap is usually blue or gray and has a water fountain or windshield wiper as a symbol. Unscrew the cap, put a funnel in the opening and carefully fill the windshield washer antifreeze into the container. A mark on the filler opening lets you see when enough windshield washer fluid has been refilled. Wear gloves when doing this and make sure not to inhale the ingredients. Windshield washer antifreeze as a supply and for emergencies Windshield washer antifreeze is available in different quantities. Canisters of 3 to 5 liters are common for one car. If you want to use the windshield antifreeze concentrate for several cars, you can also use larger canisters with a capacity of 25 liters, for example. Since windshield antifreeze usually lasts for several years, you can easily store the canisters and benefit from them for a long time. To be prepared for emergencies, you can also buy (or fill) a small bottle of premixed windshield antifreeze and keep it conveniently in the glove compartment. This is particularly useful when driving on vacation, so that you have antifreeze on hand even without water to mix it with.can be found in the manufacturer's description. Advantages of windshield antifreeze It is obvious why you need windshield antifreeze in winter instead of simple windshield washer fluid. In addition to antifreeze, many products have a number of other advantages to offer: Depending on the concentration and ingredients, even stubborn dirt can be removed from the windshield Protection against calcification prevents the nozzles and lines in the windshield washer system from becoming blocked Some products also have a scent, so that a pleasant scent spreads through the car interior when the windshield washer system is used Filling up windshield antifreeze Filling up windshield washer fluid with antifreeze is also extremely simple: Open the hood of your car. The container for the windshield washer fluid is usually made of transparent plastic. The cap is usually blue or gray and has a water fountain or windshield wiper as a symbol. Unscrew the cap, put a funnel in the opening and carefully pour the windshield antifreeze into the container. A mark on the filler opening lets you see when enough windshield washer fluid has been refilled. Wear gloves and make sure not to inhale the ingredients. Windshield antifreeze as a supply and for emergencies Windshield antifreeze is available in different quantities. Canisters of 3 to 5 liters are common for one car. If you want to use the windshield antifreeze concentrate for several cars, you can also use larger canisters with a capacity of 25 liters, for example. Since windshield antifreeze usually lasts for several years, you can easily store the canisters and benefit from them for a long time. To be prepared for emergencies, you can also buy (or fill) a small bottle of premixed windshield antifreeze and keep it conveniently in the glove compartment. This is particularly useful when driving on vacation, so that you have antifreeze on hand even without water to mix it with.can be found in the manufacturer's description. Advantages of windshield antifreeze It is obvious why you need windshield antifreeze in winter instead of simple windshield washer fluid. In addition to antifreeze, many products have a number of other advantages to offer: Depending on the concentration and ingredients, even stubborn dirt can be removed from the windshield Protection against calcification prevents the nozzles and lines in the windshield washer system from becoming blocked Some products also have a scent, so that a pleasant scent spreads through the car interior when the windshield washer system is used Filling up windshield antifreeze Filling up windshield washer fluid with antifreeze is also extremely simple: Open the hood of your car. The container for the windshield washer fluid is usually made of transparent plastic. The cap is usually blue or gray and has a water fountain or windshield wiper as a symbol. Unscrew the cap, put a funnel in the opening and carefully pour the windshield antifreeze into the container. A mark on the filler opening lets you see when enough windshield washer fluid has been refilled. Wear gloves and make sure not to inhale the ingredients. Windshield antifreeze as a supply and for emergencies Windshield antifreeze is available in different quantities. Canisters of 3 to 5 liters are common for one car. If you want to use the windshield antifreeze concentrate for several cars, you can also use larger canisters with a capacity of 25 liters, for example. Since windshield antifreeze usually lasts for several years, you can easily store the canisters and benefit from them for a long time. To be prepared for emergencies, you can also buy (or fill) a small bottle of premixed windshield antifreeze and keep it conveniently in the glove compartment. This is particularly useful when driving on vacation, so that you have antifreeze on hand even without water to mix it with.The cap is usually blue or gray and has a water fountain or a windshield wiper as a symbol. Unscrew the cap, put a funnel in the opening and carefully pour the windshield antifreeze into the container. A mark on the filling opening lets you see when enough windshield washer fluid has been refilled. Wear gloves and be careful not to inhale the ingredients. Windshield antifreeze as a reserve and for emergencies Windshield antifreeze is available in different quantities. Canisters with 3 to 5 liters are common for one car. If you want to use the windshield antifreeze concentrate for several cars, you can also use larger canisters with a capacity of 25 liters, for example. Since windshield antifreeze usually lasts for several years, you can easily store the canisters and benefit from them for a long time. To be prepared for an emergency, you can also buy (or fill) a small bottle of premixed windshield antifreeze and keep it conveniently in the glove compartment. This is especially useful when traveling on vacation, so that you have antifreeze on hand even without water to mix it.The cap is usually blue or gray and has a water fountain or a windshield wiper as a symbol. Unscrew the cap, put a funnel in the opening and carefully pour the windshield antifreeze into the container. A mark on the filling opening lets you see when enough windshield washer fluid has been refilled. Wear gloves and be careful not to inhale the ingredients. Windshield antifreeze as a reserve and for emergencies Windshield antifreeze is available in different quantities. Canisters with 3 to 5 liters are common for one car. If you want to use the windshield antifreeze concentrate for several cars, you can also use larger canisters with a capacity of 25 liters, for example. Since windshield antifreeze usually lasts for several years, you can easily store the canisters and benefit from them for a long time. To be prepared for an emergency, you can also buy (or fill) a small bottle of premixed windshield antifreeze and keep it conveniently in the glove compartment. This is especially useful when traveling on vacation, so that you have antifreeze on hand even without water to mix it."
Window cleaning	Window cleaning			"Car window cleaning: An underestimated system Vehicle window cleaning is probably one of the things that is most underestimated by vehicle owners. Only those who have a good view of the road and can maintain this even in difficult weather conditions can assume that they are safe on the road. kfzteile24 has a wide range of windshield wiper blades for all common car brands in its range and attaches great importance to their consistently high quality. If you have any questions about a product, the support center with professionally trained staff will help in case of doubt, be it in relation to the product itself or in relation to the processing of shipping, payment, etc. In addition, kfzteile24 is one of the largest online suppliers in Germany with a stock of more than a million products. More than 90 percent of the products are dispatched within 24 hours of the order. With regard to window cleaning, it is also crucial that not only the windshield wiper blades do their job properly. Optimal visibility is only possible when all components of the window cleaner on the car are fully functional. A complex system: pumps, nozzles and motors The entire cleaning system for the front and rear windows includes components such as the washer nozzle, the washer pump, the washer reservoir and the wiper motor. In other words: If you notice that the windows are no longer being cleaned properly, it does not necessarily have to be the windshield wiper blades. Identifying the source of the problem becomes more difficult if parts that are difficult to access turn out to be defective. This includes the bearings for each individual wiper arm as well as the switches and relays that are responsible for the electronic control of the cleaning system. When it comes to window cleaning, you also need to consider which cleaning products should be used."
Window cleaning	Switch/Relay			"After the first patented windshield wipers were still operated manually, it was not long before electrical engineering took over this task. In addition to the corresponding wiper motor, relays and switches are also required. Like every relay, a wiper relay closes the load circuit via a control circuit, i.e. as soon as the driver operates the steering column switch or wiper switch for the windshield wipers, current can flow to the wiper motor. The electrical energy is converted into kinetic energy and the coupled wiper linkage moves. The wiper arms are ultimately driven via the wiper linkage. In addition to this simple switch function, wiper relays offer the option of activating predefined interval circuits. The driver simply selects a wiper level and the relay opens and closes the circuit to the wiper motor at the set time interval. Wiper-wash relay from Hella Wiper switch from Herth+Buss Relays are sensitive components that work without wear but must be protected from environmental influences. Temperature fluctuations, dirt and corrosive influences could otherwise damage the insulation. If water or operating fluids penetrate, the relay usually has to be replaced."
Window cleaning	Wash water tank			"Even the best windshield wipers are ineffective on a dry windshield, so it is important to always carry enough washer fluid with you. The water, including antifreeze and, if necessary, additional windshield cleaner, are simply filled into the washer fluid reservoir, which is also colloquially known as the windshield wiper tank. The washer fluid pump then presses the water through the washer fluid nozzles onto the windshield when necessary. The water itself not only has a cleaning function, but also makes it easier for the wiper blades to glide. This prevents damage to the rubber lip. Depending on the car's equipment, the water from the washer fluid reservoir is also used to clean the headlights if a headlight cleaning system is present. The windshield wiper tanks are usually made of plastic and have a lockable filler neck. Their shape is adapted to the conditions in the car's engine compartment and varies from manufacturer to manufacturer."
Window cleaning	Washer nozzle			"The washer fluid nozzle is designed to spray the washer fluid from the washer fluid reservoir onto the windshield under pressure. The water jet must be strong enough to immediately remove easily adhering dirt. In addition, an even film of water must be formed so that the wiper blades can glide smoothly over the windshield. Washer fluid nozzles, which are also called washer nozzles or windshield wiper nozzles, work without wear, but are exposed to the environment. In autumn and winter in particular, leaves, branches or grit can clog the nozzles. If the water flow is blocked, the windshield cleaning does not work properly overall and the lifespan of the wiper blades is reduced. Due to the small openings, washer fluid nozzles are very sensitive to coarse dirt. If the nozzle is clogged, you can first try to solve the problem by blowing it hard. You can also use a needle to try to unblock it. Buying new washer fluid nozzles is of course the easiest way."
Window cleaning	Washer pump			"The washer pump plays a central role in cleaning the windshield, as it pumps the washer water from the container through the washer nozzle onto the windshield. It does not have to be very powerful and is therefore usually not particularly large or heavy. The small component usually weighs around 100 grams and, like all other electrical components in a car, is powered by 12 volts and direct current. Due to its small dimensions, a washer pump, which is sometimes also referred to as a spray water pump or washer pump, can become clogged or broken and should then be replaced promptly. However, before you target the washer pump if the windshield washer system is not working, it is best to first check the fuse. Clogged nozzles can also be a cause if the washer water does not reach the windshield. Washer pump for cars from febi bilstein Washer pump for BMW or Mercedes Changing the washer pump Replacing a defective washer pump is basically very simple, but depending on the car, the pump is not always easily accessible. It is always located on the washer fluid tank and is usually inserted into the tank. Unplug the power cable and then the old pump can be removed. Any hoses from a combination pump are transferred to the new model and the new washer fluid pump is inserted into the washer fluid tank. When replacing the pump, it is inevitable that the washer fluid will leak out, as the pump is usually located at the bottom of the tank. Therefore, refill the washer fluid after replacing the pump. Make sure that the water is enriched with antifreeze. Finally, don't forget the power plug."
Window cleaning	Wiper blade windscreen wiper			"The windshield wipers for the front and rear windows are an often underestimated safety feature of a car. Patented in the USA as early as 1903, the basic task of the windshield wipers has not changed. They still mechanically remove water and dirt from a car's windows. Thanks to the washer fluid reservoir and washer fluid pump, the windshield wipers are also able to remove coarse dirt from the window to ensure a clear view. Dust and pollen in particular can be easily removed with proper windshield wipers, while insects often have to be removed manually. A clean window not only ensures good visibility, but also contributes to relaxed driving because there are no light reflections. The eyes can concentrate on the road and are not constantly focused on the close area, as would otherwise be the case with dirt in the field of vision. Structure and function of windshield wipers The window cleaning of a car consists of a washer fluid reservoir in which the washer fluid is located, which is often enriched with windshield cleaner and must be supplemented with antifreeze in winter. Once activated by the driver, the washer pump pumps the washer fluid through the washer fluid nozzle onto the windshield and the wiper motor sets the wiper arm in motion. The wiper arm in turn has the wiper blade of the windshield wiper, which is pulled across the windshield with its rubber lip. The fluid is displaced by the wiper blades and the windshield is cleaned. There should be no streaks, smears or squeaking noises. If you are struggling with these problems, replacing the windshield wipers usually helps. Possible causes of squeaking windshield wipers The wiper, windshield or windshield wiper motor may be very dirty, as may an incorrect angle of attack, damage (e.g. to the lip of the wiper blade) or rubber that has become porous. And of course even the best windshield wiper will start to make a loud noise if the windshield is not wet enough. As a preventative measure, you should make sure to clean the windshield wipers regularly, i.e. every 6 months, and keep the rubber supple with a special rubber care product. In winter, it is also advisable to ensure that the windshield wipers do not freeze to the windshield. If you put a protective cover underneath, you are on the right track. However, you should not raise the windshield wipers, as the risk of them snapping back and damaging the windshield is too great. We also advise against using the windshield wipers against morning snow. This can bend the wiper rod, which leads to stiffness and eventually causes the wiper motor to fail. What to do,if the windshield wipers squeak? First try a thorough cleaning of the windshield wipers, windshield and windshield wiper motor, also removing any coarse dirt (stones, leaves or small branches) from under the bonnet. Make sure not to use solvents or petrol, otherwise both the coating and the wiper rubber itself will be damaged. For the windshield, simply use warm water with a little washing-up liquid or window cleaner. Any streaks can also be on the window if, for example, wax residue from the car wash was not removed thoroughly enough. Now look at the wiper blades. Is the rubber supple and the lip intact? If not, then only replacing the wiper blade will help. Then make sure to place the wiper on the window so that the rubber is perpendicular to the window, as the lip should be pulled and not pushed when the windshield wiper moves. If in doubt, any workshop can correct the so-called slant of the wipers."
Window cleaning	Wiper arm/bearing			"Cleaning a car's windows involves a complex interaction between different components. The washer pump pumps the water from the washer tank through the washer nozzles onto the window. The windshield wipers can then glide over the window and remove coarse dirt. The washer water serves both as a cleaning agent that loosens the dirt and as a lubricating film for the wiper blades. The wiper blades, in turn, are attached to wiper arms that move across the window driven by a motor. A wiper arm does not usually wear out, but can be damaged by mechanical stress and, of course, deliberate destruction."
Window cleaning	Wiper linkage/drive			"The windshield wiper linkage transmits and translates the constant rotary motion of the windshield wiper motor to the wiper arms so that they can move according to their arrangement. Modern vehicles also have lift controls for the windshield wipers so that an even larger area of ??the windshield can be cleaned. The larger field of vision contributes to driving safety. Contrary to popular belief, windshield wiper linkages are not wear-free, as they are moving parts that are often made of light metal. The metal can rust over time or be damaged if the windshield wiper blades are not replaced properly. If the problem is ignored, the windshield wiper linkage can become increasingly cumbersome. Eventually, it will no longer move at all. In the worst case, it can bend or damage the windshield wiper motor."
Window cleaning	Wiper motor			"The windshield wiper motor is essential for cleaning the windshield, as its work sets the windshield wiper linkage in motion. This transfers the energy to the wiper arms and converts the rotary movement into the familiar swinging rhythm. Depending on the model and arrangement of the windshield wipers, the windshield wiper linkage can also transfer the motor movement into a lifting movement of the wiper arms so that an even larger area of ??the windshield can be cleaned by the windshield wipers. The windshield wiper motor is usually an electric motor that runs on direct current and 12 volts in cars. It is usually low-maintenance, but can be damaged if the windshield wiper linkage creates too much resistance due to rust or deformation."
Headlight cleaning	Headlight cleaning			"Headlight cleaning is subject to high levels of stress all year round, both in the summer and winter months. In the cold season, road salt puts a strain on the components, while in the summer insects mean that headlight cleaning systems have to be used continuously. Since April 1, 2000, headlight cleaning systems have been required by law for certain types of headlights. All types of headlights that have more than 20,000 lumens as low beam must be equipped with such systems. The regulation therefore does not only apply to xenon lighting systems, as is often wrongly assumed, but also to particularly powerful LED and halogen headlights. While the headlight washer system is operated manually by the driver in some car models, car models with xenon headlights usually have an automated cleaning routine. In view of the relevance of safety, it is all the more important that the individual components for headlight cleaning function perfectly and are replaced with appropriate spare parts if there are any defects. Specialist dealers must therefore be able to obtain these wear and replacement parts quickly and reliably as soon as maintenance is required. Spare parts for headlight cleaning that are often replaced include the washer pumps, which usually transport the cleaning fluid from the tank to the nozzles using high pressure of up to 50 bar, and the nozzles themselves. While the pumps often wear out due to high stress and therefore have to be replaced, the nozzles on the headlights become clogged by deposits or unsuitable cleaning fluid. An unsuitable antifreeze in the headlight cleaning system can cause just as much damage to the hoses and nozzles as an unsuitable insect remover in the cleaning water. Components of these fluids can damage the hoses and clog the sensitive nozzles. In the worst case, the headlight glass can even be damaged, which leads to unnecessary costs. In some car models, the headlight cleaning nozzles are hidden in the bumpers and are only extended when necessary. In this case, the risk of contamination is lower than with nozzles that are rigidly mounted in front of the headlights and are constantly exposed to the elements."
Locking system	individual parts			"The locking system of a car consists of more than just locks, handles, actuators and relays for the central locking system. Sometimes you just need a locking button. It is usually made of black plastic and has grooves on the top for easier grip. The door lock can be used to secure the car from the inside against external access. However, a car's locking system is much more often needed to prevent children playing from opening the vehicle doors while the car is moving. An appropriate child safety lock allows the driver to lock the doors and avoid potential accidents."
Locking system	Handles			"Like most doors, car doors have handles that make opening them quick and easy. This means that the doors can be closed without having to lock them. One pull on the handle and the door opens. But in addition to their function, car door handles also play a role in the aesthetics and design of the vehicle. They can be small and angular, round or oval, painted in the color of the car or made of simple plastic. Even the attachment and opening mechanism can differ. Some door handles are pulled outwards like the doors, while others open upwards when pulled. Door handle for a VW Golf II Changing door handles Depending on the manufacturer and car model, the handle and lock can form a unit. Other vehicles, however, separate the locking system from the handles and therefore allow for targeted replacement. This can be necessary if the handle breaks off under excessive stress. After all, it is only made of plastic, which breaks under certain forces. The frame can also tear, which reduces the visual impression and therefore affects the value of the vehicle."
Locking system	Lock cylinder/set			"A locking cylinder is the part of the lock that mechanically blocks when the key is not inserted or does not fit. These are generally pin locks that go back to Linus Yale. The locking cylinder contains several pin columns of different sizes that are pressed towards the key by springs. The notches in the key lift the pins so that the inner locking cylinder can be turned in the stationary remainder of the lock. Dimple locks such as those sometimes used on locking cylinders for door locks Installing new locking cylinders Changing locking cylinders is always necessary when the old ones can no longer be turned due to corrosion or mechanical damage. Frost, for example, can damage the locking cylinder. An incorrect key that has been forced into the lock can also later impair its function. If this is the case, it is important to replace the door locking cylinders as quickly as possible. You can get inexpensive replacements at kfzteile24."
Locking system	Lock set			"If you have problems with your locking system, perhaps because the cylinders are rusty and the keys can no longer be turned, it may be a good idea to buy a lock set. Depending on the scope of delivery, such a lock set for the car contains door handles with integrated locks, an ignition lock and a tailgate lock. The matching keys are of course also included in the set. Since modern vehicles have a central locking system and are usually opened and locked with radio keys, mechanical lock sets are now relatively rare."
Locking system	Locks outside			"Opportunity makes thieves and therefore you should under no circumstances park your car with a defective lock. Otherwise you run the risk of unauthorized persons breaking into the vehicle, stealing valuables such as navigation devices or radios or even stealing the entire car. In case of doubt, you cannot even hope for your insurance, because not repairing a defective door lock promptly means gross negligence and therefore in all probability the loss of insurance cover. To avoid such a horror scenario, you can buy door locks, tailgate locks and bonnet locks cheaply online from kfzteile24. Door lock for a VW Golf 2 Buy a suitable lock When buying door locks, you must not only pay attention to the installation side, but also whether the lock is intended for the front doors or rear doors. They can differ in their design due to the shape of the door and the space available. Note that actuators are usually required for vehicles with central locking. In contrast to a door lock, a hood lock is not primarily designed to protect the engine from unauthorized access, but rather to ensure that the hood does not open while driving. However, it does offer a certain degree of protection against deliberate sabotage."
Locking system	Locks interior			"Locks are not only found on the doors, bonnet or tailgate of a car. They are also omnipresent in the interior. A steering lock, for example, is a useful security element to protect the car from theft. The principle is simple but effective, because without the right ignition key, the steering wheel cannot be turned. The mechanical lock can be supplemented by electronic immobilizers, for example by the control unit preventing injection or blocking the engine from starting. We still recommend that you use a steering wheel lock in addition to the installed steering lock. It offers additional protection and also has a deterrent effect. Steering lock for a VW Golf II Replacing the glove compartment lock The glove compartment is the easiest way to transport important vehicle documents, wallets, cell phones, cigarettes and lighters within easy reach but out of sight in the car. They can be partially locked, although the protection is more for curious children's hands than for hardened criminals. After all, the glove compartment is usually only made of plastic and can hardly withstand brute force. A glove compartment lock takes on this task."
Locking system	central locking system			"To make life as difficult as possible for thieves and to protect the car against theft, all doors, windows, hatches and flaps of the vehicle should be locked when parked. To make this as easy and convenient as possible for the car owner, electric windows are useful and, above all, central locking is important. It ensures that all the locks in the car lock at the push of a button. Often, both locking and unlocking are supported by the direction indicators flashing and a distinctive tone can be heard. This means you can be sure that all doors and flaps are locked without having to check each door individually. Central locking switch Structure of the central locking The most important element of the central locking system is usually the control unit. It interprets the radio signal emitted by the car key and controls the actuators and locks via relays. If the signal is recognized as authentic, the control unit gives the corresponding commands. The actuators are usually activated electrically, although a pneumatic system can also be used, particularly in older central locking systems. In this case, a vacuum pump is required to build up the air pressure in the system. Central locking systems can offer various additional functions, such as automatically locking at walking pace or automatically unlocking in the event of an accident. The aim is always to protect the occupants and property as well as possible."
Shock absorbers	Shock absorbers			"To ensure driving comfort, driving safety and correct cornering behavior of a car, shock absorbers and springs must be coordinated with each other. As a specialist in the trade of spare parts and car accessories, you will find a large selection of parts for the damping and suspension of a vehicle in our online shop, which are produced by well-known manufacturers. We offer branded goods from Monroe, Eibach and H&R, among others. So that you can buy online conveniently and worry-free, we also grant a full 365-day right of return, i.e. you order without risk. Thanks to our large central warehouse, we usually ship parts within 24 hours. This enables delivery times of between 1-2 working days. Workshops and hobby mechanics appreciate this flexibility equally. What does the right suspension do? When driving, uneven surfaces lead to strong vertical accelerations and decelerations that are proportional to the moving mass of the car. Springs are used so that these shocks are not passed on to the vehicle and therefore the occupants without suspension. They turn the entire car into a structure capable of vibrating, which is characterized by a certain natural frequency. If the car drives over an obstacle, the spring is tensioned and the body is catapulted upwards by the spring force. The force of the spring also causes this movement to be slowed down, only to then tension the spring again in the opposite direction. As the body moves up and down (vibration), the initial kinetic energy is converted into heat by air and spring friction. This is referred to as a dampened vibration with decreasing amplitude. In addition to the comfort and health of the passengers, the suspension also serves to ensure driving safety. Together with the shock absorber and stabilizer, it ensures that the wheels always maintain contact with the road. This is the only way braking, steering and drive forces can be transmitted so that the car remains controllable. This is especially true when driving over uneven surfaces and when cornering. What are shock absorbers used for? Shock absorbers support the springs by converting vibration energy into heat. They should therefore actually be called vibration dampers, but the term shock absorber has become commonplace. Nowadays, almost only hydraulic shock absorbers are used, in which a piston is set in motion in a cylinder. This displaces oil through small holes and valves. The damping process is divided into two stages, the rebound stage and the compression stage. In the compression stage, the wheel moves upwards and the damper is pushed together. In the rebound stage, the opposite movement of the wheel takes place downwards, whereby the vibration damper is pulled apart like a telescope. Depending on the road conditions, the driving speed and the outside temperature, a vibration damper can reach temperatures of up to 120  C.what the material is naturally designed for. By changing the resistance, shock absorbers can be adapted to the vehicle characteristics, with modern models even being continuously electrically adjustable. two shock absorbers from Monroe Shock absorbers are wearing parts and should be checked regularly for oil leaks. (Image: Monroe) The body vibration frequency and its significance The natural frequency of the body can be measured by causing either the rear or front of the car to vibrate. The number of vibrations per minute is then referred to as the body vibration frequency. Vibration dampers do not influence the vibration frequency but the vibration range. Soft suspension A natural frequency of less than one Hertz, i.e. a vibration frequency of 60 or less, can lead to nausea and significantly reduce driving comfort. Soft springs are mainly used in larger cars because the unfavorable weight ratio in small cars (payload compared to dead weight) does not allow this. Hard suspension With a body vibration frequency of 90 or more vibrations per minute, shocks reach the spine, which also affects comfort and health. High loads on the rear axle compared to the vehicle's own weight mean that hard springs are necessary in small cars. When unloaded, comfort is therefore only mediocre. Springs and shock absorbers make up the chassis Now that it is clear that springs and shock absorbers fulfil different tasks, the parts can be brought together again and referred to as the chassis. It is usually optimized by the manufacturer in long series of tests and always represents a compromise between sportiness and comfort. However, cars are also often lowered for optical reasons and to improve driving dynamics. However, note that the shock absorbers must match the shorter suspension springs or opt for a suitable sports suspension straight away. In the tuning sector, height-adjustable coilover suspensions are also very popular. Costs of new springs and shock absorbers Suspension springs do not have to be replaced regularly, but are only replaced when they are damaged. Damage usually occurs in older springs that have been stressed beyond their load limit. Deep potholes and high curbs with heavy loads are particularly dangerous for suspension springs. Cracks and breaks can occur. As a driver, you usually perceive this type of damage as a spongier driving behavior. Ignoring the problem and simply driving on is of course not advisable, because the shock absorber is subjected to excessive stress and then also needs to be replaced. New strut made of shock absorber and spring A strut always consists of a shock absorber and a spring. (Image: Nixx Photography @shutterstock.com) The cost of changing the springs depends in particular on how much time the workshop needs to dismantle the vehicle.Since work on the front axle is generally a little more complex than the rear, changing the front suspension springs is usually more expensive. In a small car such as the VW Polo, replacing the front springs costs between 170 and 270 euros. For an upper middle class vehicle, however, the cost can be between 250 and 600 euros. Unlike the suspension springs, shock absorbers are wearing parts that need to be replaced regularly. A complete replacement of all four shock absorbers in a small car costs between 600 and 1000 euros. In the Golf class, four new shock absorbers cost between 750 and 1200 euros, and in the upper middle class, between 1350 and 2100 euros. If other suspension parts are damaged, such as the handlebars, whose rubber bearings are prone to tearing, these should be replaced at the same time. If you do not have the specialist knowledge, we recommend that you leave the installation to the workshop, but buy the parts online. This way you save money and by choosing the shop you can be sure that you are buying quality goods from brand manufacturers. Simply select your vehicle and choose between the offers that suit your car."
Shock absorbers	Leaf spring suspension			"Like all springs, leaf springs in vehicle construction are used to convert road jolts into vibrations. Vibrations instead of jolts or impacts increase driving comfort and protect loads and passengers. The bending springs also ensure that the wheels do not lose contact with the road. However, leaf springs only play a minor role in the passenger car sector. In comparison to coil springs, it is a very hard suspension, as is required in commercial vehicles due to their high weight. You will therefore mainly find leaf springs or bending springs for vans at kfzteile24. a typical leaf spring from Blue Print Structure of a leaf spring Like most springs, leaf springs are made of elastic spring steel, such as that produced by alloying with chromium, molybdenum and vanadium, with the spring effect resulting from the deformation of the material. Leaf springs are divided into semi-elliptical springs and trapezoidal springs. Trapezoidal spring A trapezoidal spring consists of several slightly curved spring leaves that are placed on top of one another and combined as a package. The heart screw in the middle prevents the individual leaves from moving in the direction of the longitudinal axis, while the surrounding spring clips prevent the spring leaves from slipping sideways. The hardness of the leaf spring is determined by the number and thickness of the leaf springs. When compressed, the individual leaf springs rub against each other, so that energy is converted into heat. Semi-elliptic springs therefore have a high level of inherent damping, which supports any shock or vibration dampers. Parabolic spring A parabolic spring is made up of a few spring leaves that taper from the center to the ends. They are also made of steel and, due to their construction, have a longer spring travel, which results in softer, more comfortable suspension. The spring leaves of a parabolic spring are usually separated from one another by plastic surfaces to prevent excessive friction."
Shock absorbers	Top mount			"The strut mount is also known as the suspension strut bearing and connects the suspension strut (shock absorber and spring) to the body. Since the wheels are adjusted by the steering angle, the connection on the front axle of a car must be designed to be rotatable. The roller bearing (usually a ball bearing) of the strut mount guides the suspension strut and is integrated into a stable rubber-metal element. The rubber allows slight angle changes through deformation and serves to dampen vibrations. A roller bearing from Sachs Suspension strut support bearings usually do not have a ball bearing. Different designs of the strut mount The strut mount is the core element of the suspension strut tower, as it enables the suspension strut to rotate relative to the body, as mentioned. However, this is usually not necessary on the rear axle, so these strut mounts do not require a roller bearing. To make it easier to distinguish, this form of strut mount is also called a suspension strut support bearing. In motorsport, metal strut mounts are also used, which do not provide any vibration damping and are not deformable. In order to still allow the angle of the suspension strut to be changed, ball joints are used instead of roller bearings. This makes the steering extremely precise."
Shock absorbers	Suspension springs / sports springs			"The suspension springs of a car have the task of absorbing shocks and converting them into vibrations. This is necessary because otherwise acceleration forces acting perpendicular to the road when driving over bumps are passed on to the occupants and the load in the car. Depending on the mass and speed of the vehicle, these forces can be many times greater than the acceleration due to gravity and have a negative effect on health and driving comfort. The right suspension also contributes to driving safety by ensuring constant contact between the wheels and the ground, particularly when cornering. a typical coil spring of a chassis How do suspension springs work? Spring set for a BMW. The suspension springs enable the car to oscillate and convert absorbed shock energy into heat through air and spring friction as well as shock absorption. The springs couple the body (sprung mass) with the wheels (unsprung mass). The lower the mass of the unsprung parts, the greater the comfort and driving safety. When driving over a bump, the wheel initially absorbs the energy and then passes it on to the suspension spring. Due to the inertia of the body, it does not move at first and the suspension spring is tensioned. The spring force ultimately ensures that the body also moves upwards until the upper turning point is reached. The spring force and the weight accelerate the body downwards again. This results in a vibration that subsides through appropriate damping. Lowering springs and coilovers In the tuning sector, lowering springs are used that act like normal suspension springs but lower the level of the car. The lowering spring is therefore always shorter than the original suspension spring. The spring itself is often designed to be significantly harder, i.e. the spring rate is increased. Hard suspension reduces driving comfort, but also reduces the annoying rocking of the vehicle. The lower center of gravity also reduces the vehicle's lateral inclination and roll around the longitudinal axis is suppressed. As a result, a sportier driving style is possible. Lowering springs are therefore also known as sports springs. The disadvantage of this type of sports suspension is that it is only ever specified for a specific spring length. However, depending on the payload and area of ??use, it may make sense to vary the spring length. For example, in the show sector, a center of gravity that is as low as possible is desirable for optical reasons, while for everyday use or with a large payload, only a longer spring travel seems practical. To solve this dilemma, coilover suspensions were developed that allow the level of lowering to be regulated without having to change the springs. The coilover suspension can be easily adapted to the respective requirements."
Shock absorbers	Suspension travel limiter (universal)			"A travel limiter is usually made of a hard rubber compound and is attached to the piston rod of the shock absorber to reduce the compression of the car when driving over bumps. Travel limiters can shorten the spring travel on a soft chassis without replacing the springs and thus enable more direct handling. In practice, however, travel limiters are often used on cars that have already been tuned and lowered. In this role, they serve as inexpensive spacers to prevent the wheels from rubbing against the wheel arch or the underbody on the road. Travel limiters from raidhp Dangers of travel limiters Travel limiters prevent the car from compressing more. For your own safety, you should not use travel limiters just to protect a car that is as low as possible with fancy wide tires from bottoming out. As the name suggests, the travel is of course further restricted and the suspension even harder. In addition to a lack of driving comfort and possible health damage from impacts to the spine, there is also a risk of safety-related disadvantages in traffic. If the car is no longer able to swing sufficiently, the wheels will lose contact with the ground when driving over bumps. The transfer of steering or braking forces is then no longer possible and the car becomes uncontrollable. You then risk your life in curves. So instead of using spring travel extenders as cheap spacers, if in doubt you should adjust your suspension springs."
Shock absorbers	Air suspension			"The so-called air suspension uses gas springs that use the elastic behavior of an enclosed gas (usually air or nitrogen) for suspension. They offer numerous advantages over other types of springs, but also require a complex and reliable pressure generation system and are therefore used primarily in the commercial vehicle sector. However, off-road vehicles and luxury cars are also sometimes equipped with an air suspension. By changing the air pressure, the spring travel can be adjusted to the payload and the loading or entry height can also be regulated. The air suspension also allows the level to be adjusted depending on the speed by means of appropriate control interventions. Safety in curves can also be increased because the lateral inclination of the body can be counteracted. The black rubber bellows is the air spring. (Image: Tennen-Gas - CC BY-SA 3.0) Low inherent damping of air Like all springs, air suspension couples the sprung mass of the car (body) with the unsprung mass (wheels) and enables road shocks to be converted into vibrations. However, the vibrations are only slightly dampened, so that the vehicle would continuously bounce up and down without additional damping. The additional damping required can, however, be provided as a structural unit in the form of a gas pressure damper. In contrast to steel springs, air springs are also not able to transmit wheel forces. They are therefore installed between the control arms or axles and the body."
Shock absorbers	Level control/chassis hydraulics			
Shock absorbers	Sports suspension			"A so-called sports suspension usually consists of harder, usually shorter springs and matching shock absorbers. The car modified in this way is perceived as sportier, but is usually less comfortable. While the standard design of the springs and dampers by the vehicle manufacturer represents a good compromise between sportiness and comfort, the sports suspension offers car enthusiasts the opportunity to feel more road feedback. The sports suspension really comes into its own on race tracks, although the name is misleading because not the entire chassis is changed. A sports suspension consists of dampers and springs. Coilover suspension as a special sports suspension Coilover suspensions allow level control using threaded screws on the spring strut. Short spring travel, which is particularly desired for show purposes, gives the car an impressive appearance, but is rarely suitable for everyday use. In extreme cases, the underbody threatens to touch the ground when the suspension is compressed and the tires can also drag on the wheel arch. Even driveways and curbs can sometimes be a problem for lowered cars. If you don't want to miss out on the stylish look but also want to drive your car away from admiring glances, you should install a coilover suspension. Compared to other sports suspensions, it offers the advantage that the spring travel can be adjusted relatively easily. Level control is achieved using a threaded screw on the spring strut instead of the time-consuming replacement of the springs. The same mechanism also allows the car to be adjusted to high payloads. Coilover suspensions are therefore also known as screw suspensions."
Shock absorbers	Shock absorber attachments			"The shock absorbers of a car help to reduce the vibrations of the vehicle caused by impacts and bumps as quickly as possible. However, in order for them to be installed safely and to last a long time, numerous additional attachments are required. Of course, the stop buffer is particularly important, as it prevents the piston rod from breaking through the cylinder when the suspension is compressed heavily. The shock absorber is protected from external influences such as dirt or splash water by a dust cap or bellows. The protective caps are usually available in a bundle as a dust protection set for both shock absorbers on an axle. A dust protection set with bellows for the front axle from Sachs a threaded sleeve for the spring strut from febi bilstein Screws, threaded sleeves and assembly kits At kfzteile24 you can also buy screws for the spring strut wheel bearing housing and we also have suitable spring strut support bearings on offer. Threaded sleeves, assembly kits and camber correction screws complete the range. Before purchasing, make sure that you have chosen the correct installation side, i.e. whether the bearings, sleeves and screws are intended for the front or rear axle of your vehicle."
Shock absorbers	Camber correction screws			"The inclination of the wheel plane in relation to the vertical of the contact point is called camber and can be positive or negative. Camber has a significant influence on the handling of the car as well as the wear of the tires and thus their service life. A slight negative camber, where the wheel is tilted inwards, improves the cornering forces, but should not exceed 2 . This protects the tires and prevents the car from warping when driving straight ahead, after all, wheels tend to turn inwards with negative camber. Camber adjustment screws from H&R allow camber correction of up to three degrees. Camber corrections after lowering After changes to the chassis, it is usually also necessary to correct the camber, because lowering the vehicle level can cause the negative camber to become significantly too large. As a result, the inside of the tires is subjected to greater stress than the outside, which can be seen by the tread being worn down on one side. One way to correct this is to use camber adjustment screws or camber correction screws, which, thanks to their eccentric shape, allow camber adjustment of several degrees. However, they are not suitable for every vehicle."
Carrier systems	Carrier systems			"Ist eine l ngere Urlaubsreise geplant, w nscht man sich h ufig ein gr  eres Auto. Schlie lich reicht selbst der gro e Kofferraum eines Kombis nicht immer aus, um Kleidung und Ausr stung komplett zu verstauen, wenn die ganze Familie unterwegs ist. Besonders problematisch sind Ski f r den Winterurlaub, das Zelt f r den Camping-Trip oder auch Angelutensilien. Mehr Stauraum bietet dann eine Dachbox zum Nachr sten. Daf r eignet sich in der Regel jedes PKW-Modell, denn die Grundvoraussetzung f r eine Dachbox ist lediglich ein entsprechender Dachtr ger. Diese sind entweder speziell f r das jeweilige Fahrzeug ausgelegt und zugelassen oder k nnen als Universaltr ger an jedem Auto montiert werden. In unserem folgenden Ratgeber erkl ren wir Ihnen, was dabei zu beachten ist.
Dachbox auf einem Auto
Arbeiten Sie beim Anbringen einer Dachbox zu zweit, um den Lack nicht zu zerkratzen. (Bild: robcocquyt @istockphoto.com)
Dachbox nachr sten: Welches Modell ist f r welches Auto geeignet?
Wer f r sein Auto eine Dachbox nachr sten m chte, der sollte zun chst einmal einen Blick in die Bedienungsanleitung des Fahrzeugs werfen. Dort ist angegeben, ob der Pkw f r eine Dachlast zugelassen ist und auch, wie hoch diese sein darf. Meistens betr gt die zul ssige Dachlast 50-100 kg. Dachboxen lassen sich mit ein paar Ausnahmen auf den meisten Fahrzeugen montieren, doch insbesondere Cabrios und Convertibles sind nat rlich ungeeignet.
Dachbox Motion XT XXL von ThuleDachbox  ffnen rechts und linksDachbox von Kamei
Damit Sie die Dachbox auf Ihrem Pkw nachr sten k nnen, m ssen Sie sich  berlegen, f r welche Transportzwecke Sie die Dachbox ben tigen. Daraus ergibt sich auch die Gr  e. Denn das Campingzelt, die Ski-Ausr stung oder das Kinderbett geben meistens bestimmte Abmessungen vor. Sollen zum Beispiel Ski transportiert werden, die 1,65 m lang sind, dann muss die Dachbox 1,70 m lang sein. Wichtig ist aber auch, dass das Fahrzeug selbst mit Dachbox noch in Ihre Garage passt, sollten Sie eine nutzen. Achten Sie beim Kauf daher auch auf die H he der Box. Soll noch weiteres Gep ck wie z.B. Fahrrad oder Surfbrett mit, muss die Dachbox entsprechend in ihrer Breite gew hlt werden.
Gr  e: Passt eine Dachbox auf jedes Auto?
Neben dem Cabrio gibt es auch noch einige Kleinwagen und Sportflitzer, die nicht f r eine Dachlast freigegeben sind und bei denen keine Dachbox nachger stet werden kann. Die Dachboxen wiegen - abh ngig von Hersteller und Gr  e - zwischen elf und 26 kg. Dabei m ssen Sie auch das Gewicht vom Dachgep cktr ger und dem Gep ck ber cksichtigen. Nur wenn die Summe aller Teile die vorgegebene Dachlast nicht  bersteigt, passt die Dachbox zu Ihrem Auto. Es ist ebenfalls wichtig, dass die Dachbox das Heck des Fahrzeuges nicht  berragt. Die Kofferraumklappe muss sich auch bei montierter Dachbox noch vollst ndig  ffnen lassen. Au erdem sollte die Box auch vorne nicht  ber das Fahrzeugdach hinausragen. Im Idealfall passt sich die Dachbox an den Windschutzscheibenverlauf an und sorgt so f r eine optimale Aerodynamik.
Montage beim Dachbox nachr sten: So bringen Sie die Dachbox optimal an
Montieren Sie die Dachbox in Ruhe und nicht in der Hektik des Aufbruchs. Es ist zu empfehlen, den Gep cktr ger und die Dachbox einige Tage vor der Fahrt leer auf dem Autodach anzubringen, allerdings nicht st ndig damit zu fahren. Der Widerstandskoeffizent steigt unweigerlich und damit der Verbrauch. Ist das Auto wie zum Beispiel bei einem SUV besonders hoch und die Box sehr gro , kann sich die Arbeit schwierig gestalten. Noch komplizierter wird es, wenn es sich um einen Kleinbus handelt. Dann werden meist drei Personen sowie eine Tritthilfe ben tigt. Bei einem kleineren SUV oder Minivan reicht ein Paar helfender H nde. Arbeiten Sie nicht allein, um keine Lacksch den zu riskieren.
Tipp: Decken sie das Autodach und die Motorhaube mit einer dicken Decke ab. So sch tzen Sie den Lack vor Verkratzen.
Lesen Sie vor Montage der Box unbedingt die Anleitung des Herstellers durch und folgen Sie dieser. Zun chst einmal muss die Box mit den Quertr gern an der Dachgep ckreling verbunden werden. Dabei ist meist ein exakter Abstand zwischen den Tr gern einzuhalten, damit die Befestigungspunkte passen. Montieren Sie die Dachbox das erste Mal, dann m ssen Sie die Tr ger in der Regel nachjustieren. S ubern Sie vor der Montage alle Kontaktpunkte an der Box, den Grundtr gern und dem Dach sorgf ltig, damit die Halterungen nicht verrutschen. Dies ist besonders wichtig, wenn es sich bei der Box um ein Modell mit Magnettr gern handelt. Besonders praktisch sind Dachboxen mit einem Schnellverschlusssystem.
Kosten: Was kostet eine neue Dachbox?
Sein Fahrzeug mit einer Dachbox nachzur sten muss nicht teuer sein. Die meisten Modelle liegen in einer Preisspanne zwischen 200-700 ?. Darunter finden Sie einige preiswerte Boxen, die allerdings nicht immer hohen Qualit tsanspr chen gen gen. Vergleichstests helfen Ihnen, passende Dachboxen g nstig zu finden. Zur Auswahl stehen auch viele verschiedene Hersteller. Eine kleine Auswahl haben wir Ihnen aufgelistet:
Thule - Premiumhersteller mit 70 Jahren Erfahrung
Kamei - qualitativ hochwertige Dachbox aus Deutschland
Menabo - ein bekannter Hersteller von Dachboxen aus Italien
G3 - italienischer Dachboxhersteller mit 30 Jahren Erfahrung
Farad - Dachboxen und Dachtr ger aus Italien
Hapro - qualitative Dachboxen auch als Softbox
LEVUP - besonders gro e Dachboxen
NEUMANN - deutscher Hersteller von Dachtr gern und Dachboxen
Mont Blanc - Dachboxhersteller mit Niederlassungen in Schweden, Gro britanien und Frankreich
Verstauen: So packen Sie richtig
Experten empfehlen, eine Dachbox systematisch zu packen. Dabei gelten dieselben Regeln wie f r das Beladen eines Kofferraums: schwere Sachen geh ren immer nach unten und die leichteren nach oben. Au erdem sollten im vorderen Bereich leichte und polsternde Dinge wie Schlafs cke, Taschen oder Decken Platz finden. Dadurch kann vermieden werden, dass bei einem Unfall spitze Gegenst nde die Dachbox durchschlagen.
In den meisten Boxen sind Zurrgurte enthalten, die ebenfalls verhindern, dass bei einem Unfall oder bei starkem Bremsen die Box durchschlagen wird. Beim Fahren ist darauf zu achten, dass sich aufgrund des h heren Schwerpunkts das Fahrverhalten des Fahrzeugs negativ ver ndert. Es l sst sich anders lenken und Seitenwinde haben eine gr  ere Angriffsfl che. Passen Sie daher Ihre Fahrweise an und seien Sie insbesondere auf Br cken und nach Waldst cken vorsichtig. Beachten Sie auch, dass ein Auto mit Dachbox nicht mehr in jede Garage passt.
Dachbox richtig packen
In eine Dachbox geh rt leichtes Gep ck, das gegen Verrutschen gesichert wird. (Bild: andreas_fischler @flickr.com (CC BY 2.0))
Tipp:  berpr fen Sie nach einigen Kilometern die Befestigung der Box und spannen Sie gegebenenfalls noch einmal nach.
Fahren mit der Dachbox
Wir empfehlen eine H chstgeschwindigkeit von ca. 130 km in der Stunde. Bei diesem Tempo h lt sich der Benzinverbrauch auch noch in Grenzen. Zwar steigen auch dann die Au enger usche durch die Dachbox merkbar an, trotzdem sind noch Unterhaltungen m glich. Auf 100 Kilometer muss mit einem Mehrverbrauch von ca. 2-3 Litern gerechnet werden.  brigens gibt es inzwischen Dachboxen zum Nachr sten mit einer verbesserten Aerodynamik. Wird die Box nicht mehr ben tigt, so k nnen Sie sie liegend lagern. Zudem gibt es spezielle Halterungen, mit denen sich Dachboxen an der Wand befestigen lassen. Eine dritte Lagerm glichkeit bietet die Decke einer Garage. Hierf r bieten einige Hersteller auch spezielle L sungen wie einen Lift. Sch tzen Sie die Dachbox vor allzu gro er W rme, K lte oder vor Wasser, denn so ist eine lange Lebensdauer gew hrleistet. Einen negativen Einfluss haben eine feuchte Lagerung oder eine Lagerung auf einer Heizung. Aber auch lange Zeiten im Freien sind sch dlich."
Carrier systems	trailer hitch	Electrical kit		"kfzteile24 always has over a million spare parts for cars and practical car accessories in stock. A suitable electrical kit for the trailer hitch, also known as an E-kit, is sure to be there. We offer tailor-made electrical kits for the respective vehicle from brand manufacturers such as Brink and Erich Jaeger, which you can buy easily and conveniently online in the shop. Thanks to fast delivery - usually within 24 hours - car repair shops, breakdown services and petrol stations also rely on our offer in order to be able to react flexibly and in line with requirements. If you have any questions about spare parts in general and electrical kits in particular, you can contact our support team with confidence. The friendly and trained staff will be happy to help you find the right electrical kit for your trailer hitch. How to properly wire a trailer with an electrical kit In most vehicles, there is a small housing on a bracket next to the trailer hitch. In this housing there is a special socket that connects the trailer's electrical system to that of the vehicle via the electrical kit. In particular, the light signals are transmitted to the trailer and the necessary current is passed on. The voltage at the socket is usually 12 volts and a distinction is made between 7-pin and 13-pin systems. 7-pin electrical kit or 13-pin? In the past, a 7-pin connection to the trailer was sufficient to be able to precisely control the light signals of a trailer. There was nothing more than tail lights, brake lights, indicators, license plate lights or rear fog lights. Modern vehicles are more complicated and have technical systems such as an electronic stability program (ESP) or parking aids that use the car's CAN bus to detect when a trailer is attached. Of course, the trailer must also have a 13-pin connection, although adapters are also available. In addition to the larger signal bandwidth, 13-pin electrical kits have the advantage that no water can penetrate due to the necessary rotational movement to secure the connection. Damage to the electrical system and rust on the contacts are avoided in this way. In principle, trailers can be connected using universal electrical kits, although vehicle-specific electrical kits often offer additional functionality."
Carrier systems	Roof base carrier			"Most cars, especially station wagons, are now equipped with attachment points for a roof rack. Where this is not the case, only racks for roof rails are considered. The locking systems are easy to use and ensure stable support on the roof. Such so-called railing racks form the basis for the installation of other, more special carrying and holding systems. First and foremost are roof boxes, which can hold goods to be transported while protecting them from external influences. Almost at the same time, bicycle carrier systems should be mentioned, which either make it possible to carry these bulky items in the first place or in any case do not block the storage space within the passenger compartment. Of course, roof racks are also suitable for use directly as attachment points for long items. From surfboards to pipes or lumber, everything can be carried in the vehicle without much effort. The maximum permissible roof load of the respective vehicle must always be observed. In most cases, even two electric bicycles are too much of a load for the roof. Roof base carrier for higher loads If the roof load of a vehicle is not sufficient for the planned transport of goods or if aesthetic reasons play a role, a carrier that is mounted on the trailer coupling or the trailer drawbar can be the appropriate solution. Although the permissible load-bearing weight must be checked here too, this is usually higher than the permissible roof load. In addition, the driving behavior of the vehicle is not affected as much because the transported goods are not exposed to the wind (from driving) or develop strong transverse forces when cornering. The possibility of loading at a height of only around 50 cm above the ground is also a strong argument for many users. Lifting bicycles onto the vehicle roof without damaging the vehicle requires either a corresponding amount of force or a much more complex carrier system with a lifting device. Plan roof racks or roof base carriers individually Which type of carrier is ultimately preferred depends largely on the type of planned main use. For owners of vehicles that do not have a trailer hitch, today's modern roof rack systems, with their easy installation and secure hold, definitely offer a good alternative for significantly expanding the storage space of your own vehicle."
Carrier systems	Roof boxes			"A roof box is a typical luggage rack that is mounted on the roof of a car and is suitable for transporting bulky items or generally expanding the storage space. Depending on their length and shape, the boxes have a loading volume of up to 630 liters and are ideal for transporting skis or snowboards safely and protected from the weather, for example. Choose the roof box that suits the size of the vehicle, because according to the StVZO, no parts may protrude. If this is guaranteed, roof boxes do not require a general operating permit and do not have to be entered in the vehicle documents. Roof boxes should of course not only be large, but also have other properties. Since they inevitably increase air resistance and thus fuel consumption, an aerodynamic shape is an advantage. This also minimizes wind noise. Roof boxes should also be dimensionally stable and lockable. There are also foldable versions. Roof box from Kamei Installing a roof box To be able to attach the roof box, you first need load carriers or roof base carriers, which are available for cars with and without roof rails. Once the carriers are installed, the roof box is placed on top and securely screwed in place. Care must be taken to ensure that the load is evenly distributed and cannot slip. Always read the instructions for use, as the roof box is subjected to great forces when accelerating and braking. The maximum load must also not be exceeded for safety reasons. Our professional mechanics explain in the video how to attach the roof box to the vehicle."
Carrier systems	Roof racks (skis/boats/ladders/pipes)			"Transporting bulky goods is not only a question of feasibility, but also of safety. In addition, compliance with legal standards is particularly important for companies, as warranty claims, the smooth running of business processes, compensation and, last but not least, the company's image are at stake if damage occurs due to improper transport. With the right roof rack, goods of all kinds can not only be transported safely, but also loaded and unloaded conveniently. Special or universal The most comfortable transport is guaranteed by vehicle-specific systems. The right carrier solution is available for almost every type of vehicle. It enables optimal loading and ensures that the driving dynamics remain largely unchanged. If the fleet consists of several different vehicles and the roof rack is only needed sporadically, a universally applicable system can also help. It can be adapted to almost any vehicle and is quickly installed. Roof racks for boats show how flexible such systems are. The holder is adjusted to the appropriate size by sliding. Kayaks can be transported even more easily and in a particularly space-saving way. They are secured over the side of the vehicle roof using loops. This leaves space to mount an additional ski roof rack, for example. Anyone who often transports long, straight objects such as ladders and pipes will be pleased with the convenience of a roller. It complements the existing roof rack and ensures that transported goods can be easily rolled onto the roof and pulled down just as easily. This not only makes loading and unloading child's play, but also protects the roof rack, as there is no wear and tear due to friction. Well protected, not just on the roof But roof racks are not just suitable for transporting bulky objects. Roof rack awnings left out on the sides create a zone protected from sun and rain - ideal for traveling traders. This means that a covered stand can be set up right next to the vehicle. Such an installation is also ideal for trade fairs and outdoor events. If the entire vehicle interior is needed to transport work materials, space can be created to act and work without the risk of goods and everyday objects being damaged by the weather."
Carrier systems	bike rack			"Bicycle racks are also called bike racks in the south of Germany and Switzerland and are usually the only way to transport bicycles without a trailer in a car. Many people do not want to miss out on the convenience of getting around by bike, especially on vacation, and explicit bike tours are also becoming increasingly popular. Car bike racks are ideal for transporting bulky bikes comfortably and safely over long distances. They are available as roof racks, coupling and rear racks, and drawbar racks. At kfzteile24 you can also buy lots of useful accessories such as adapters and extensions for bike racks. Thule bike racks Bike racks for the roof Bike racks as roof racks For a long time, transporting bikes on the roof was the only permitted way to transport bikes in a car without a trailer in Germany. They are therefore widespread. The systems are usually mounted on existing load carriers, with the bikes usually standing vertically and in the direction of travel. However, there are also roof racks on the market where the bikes are transported lying down. The disadvantage of all roof racks is the greater air resistance, which inevitably results in higher fuel consumption. Putting on, securing and then removing the bikes can also be a laborious procedure, which may also damage the paintwork. After all, handling bulky bikes overhead is not easy. To make loading and unloading easier, bike roof racks with lifting aids are also available. If you decide on a bike rack on the roof, please also consider the height of the vehicle when crossing bridges and underpasses! Bike racks as coupling and rear carriers Coupling and rear carriers originally come from Holland and France, but have now become popular here too. They are clamped onto an existing trailer coupling and fixed in place. Due to the standardization of the trailer coupling, the systems are type-independent and can be used on all cars. Only the permissible support load of the trailer coupling and of course the weight of the coupling carrier and the bikes must be observed. An exception are couplings made of aluminum, for which special approvals must be observed. Depending on the model, the coupling carriers can be loaded with 2-4 bicycles, although additional securing devices at the rear of the vehicle are often necessary when the load is large. To ensure unhindered access to the tailgate, high-quality coupling carriers have a folding mechanism. However, the bicycle carrier at the rear not only blocks the trunk, but also usually restricts the driver's view. Maneuvering a longer car should also be practiced before the trip. Approved coupling carriers have additional rear lights,but if the required 3rd rear light is covered, it may have to be retrofitted. In most cases, clamps or straps fix the bike in a U-rail. Variants with brackets that enclose the wheels or frame are also possible. Twinny Load is the name given to bike racks where the bike is fixed to the cranks."
Carrier systems	Luggage baskets			"What used to be simply roof racks has now become more diverse. Luggage transport solutions for the roof provide more loading space and, like almost all car accessories, are available in different versions for a wide variety of purposes. There are, for example, lockable ski and luggage boxes that protect winter sports equipment on the car roof during transport. If, on the other hand, you often want to transport bulky items in everyday life, a luggage basket is a good option. What makes luggage baskets special? It is important for luggage baskets on the car roof that they can be easily attached to the body of the car. This can be done either by screwing them onto an existing railing or using special attachment points designed by the car manufacturer. Other variants involve clamping them into the doors or the gutters of the car using so-called clamp feet. Another important feature is the material the luggage basket is made of. It should of course be stable and rust-proof, but at the same time be lightweight in order to have as much payload as possible for the goods being transported. Light tubular steel constructions or aluminum constructions have proven to be effective here. The purpose of the luggage basket should also be considered: if large and bulky items are to be transported frequently, a luggage basket with the lowest possible side walls is recommended so that the bulky items can be safely stored and secured. However, if more small items are to be transported on the roof of the car, you can consider using more tub-shaped and sometimes even lockable luggage baskets. Luggage baskets for the car roof are easy to install and practical to use. Unlike bicycle carrier systems on the rear of the car, roof racks do not require a general operating permit (ABE) and do not have to be registered. However, the increased air resistance also increases fuel consumption by between 10 and 50 percent, depending on the model, load and speed, when such a luggage transport solution is installed on the car roof. Don't forget to secure the load. The load contained in the basket should not be able to slip under any circumstances and the center of gravity should be as low as possible so that there is no risk of tipping over. Many suppliers of luggage baskets also offer corresponding luggage nets made of rubber bands, which can be used to secure the load. kfzteile24 has the highest quality standards and therefore offers products from well-known manufacturers that will also convince you."
Carrier systems	Tailgate carrier			"Aerodynamic and safe even during demanding maneuvers: tailgate carriers are a real alternative to roof racks and trailers. At kfzteile24, you can select not only the car make and model, but also the specific vehicle type, which enables precise results. Even rare models are covered by more than 1 million car parts in stock and can be delivered at short notice. The airy transport variant No trailer hitch is required to install a tailgate carrier. Mounted on the back of the car, it offers special safety. Even in the event of an impact, objects remain behind the vehicle and do not pose a danger to other road users and pedestrians. They are also recommended from an aerodynamic point of view. They offer no air resistance, which prevents the impairment of acceleration performance and steering behavior. This means that the vehicle's handling is only minimally changed, which helps the driver to be able to assess the car optimally. There is also no need to pay special attention to height restrictions on underpasses and tunnels. Fuel consumption is only minimally increased with this type of transport. Particularly useful because the carrier system does not necessarily have to be dismantled when not in use. More storage space Equipping the tailgate carrier is child's play and requires little effort, as the goods to be transported can be secured close to the ground. The trunk can also be opened easily with most models. Body carriers offer the option of extending the tailgate carrier. This means that up to four bicycles can be transported. But specific models for two-wheelers are not the only ones available; skis can also be stored in a space-saving manner. Special rear carriers for the area also enable the transport of wood, game and bait. Many systems can be installed without tools. Most are also designed not to cover the rear lights. If this is not possible, tailgate carriers offer their own, which are connected directly to the vehicle. Closed transport boxes are a special gimmick. They can extend the trunk to provide storage space, are waterproof and protect the contents from sunlight. Goods stored in this way do not need to be secured separately and remain where they are even in the event of emergency braking."
Carrier systems	Carrier accessories (adapter/electric			"The assembled base frame of a roof rack or the fastening options on the trailer coupling, the tailgate or the trailer drawbar are the basis for a wide range of transport aids. It is usually advisable to make sure when purchasing the additional boxes or carriers that the mounting material supplied as standard fits the existing base carrier. If this does not seem 100% certain, the purchase of an adapter set should be considered. Ultimately, only a secure connection between the vehicle and the carrier and between the carrier and the goods to be transported can guarantee that there is no danger even in extreme driving situations. Therefore, the procurement of suitable lashing straps should also be considered here. Carrier accessories: safety always takes priority In addition to always securely fastening carrier accessories, identification with suitable lights and lamps must be planned. If a carrier with a load protrudes too far beyond the vehicle or obscures the original vehicle lighting, additional lights must be installed. Of course, the general rules also apply to this lighting, such as the prohibition of glare, distance from the road and so on. It is therefore strongly recommended to buy tested quality for these cases too. It is always advisable to have the right light bulbs supplied at the same time. Locks, locks and bags In addition to the parts described above, which are for your own safety and are therefore essential, there is a whole range of other carrying accessories that can make loading and packing easier. This category includes small parts that are used to level all connections and those that make loading easier in general. These include, for example, wheel stops for the secure standing of a bicycle or the various types of frame holders that are intended to keep the loaded bicycle in an upright position even when strong transverse forces act on it. Finally, the transported goods must be protected against theft. The parts trade also offers many individual options for this, from lock sets to the well-known steel cable lock to lockable toggle nuts. There are also transport bags that are intended, for example, for dismantled bicycle front wheels. They protect the wheel or the passenger compartment from damage."
Tools | Workshop	Tools | Workshop			"Appropriate workshop equipment is a major factor in determining the type and quality of services. For this reason, professional vehicle workshops, towing services and petrol stations cannot do without high-quality tools for cars. The quality of hand and power tools is an important economic factor. kfzteile24 specializes in car tools that meet the highest standards in terms of durability, ergonomics and functionality. More than 1 million car parts, car spare parts and tools from well-known manufacturers such as Dunlop, Bosch, Valeo, Continental and Hazet are available. In addition to the common tool variants, new products are always available. Work machines that work with a wide variety of operating principles are also suitable as efficient work tools. Car tools can be used for repairs and maintenance as well as for measuring and testing. The larger the selection of tools, the more complicated and complex jobs can be carried out professionally. The high quality standards make it possible to supply tools that have a long service life and are based on the latest technical advances. State-of-the-art devices such as exhaust gas testers, battery service devices and BrainBee exhaust gas testers support the work of the specialists. The car brake testers and diagnostic testers make work easier. These include, for example, the reading devices that can be used for cars and vans. Errors can be read and deleted with these innovations. The right automotive tool for every need Hand tools should not be underestimated. Brand manufacturers such as Proxxon, Hazet and Mannesmann are characteristic of the product range of torque wrenches, torque amplifiers and insert tools for torque wrenches. Bit inserts made of the best material quality, brushes with steel bristles and premium tools in the form of pin wrenches and soft-face hammers complement every car workshop in terms of tool technology. The unique, huge range of car parts for all car brands and tools underlines kfzteile24's claim to leadership. Seals of quality and certifications are available for a wide range of tool stocks. These include electrical products and hand tools such as ratchets and wrenches, vices, threading tools and inch tools. Special tools for cars and trucks can be ordered as pullers and airbag removal tools as well as brake and diesel pump tools. Shipping is quick within one to two working days. Awards such as Best Brand Online Mail Order and Service Champions as the number 1 auto parts shop guarantee the quality of the displays.To ensure perfect vehicle maintenance, pneumatic tools for right- and left-hand threads with accessories and injector removal tools for trucks and cars can be purchased at flexible payment terms."
Accesories	Accesories			"Breakdown assistance - more than just a temporary solution According to ADAC breakdown statistics, the number of vehicles that break down is 7.5 percent each year, depending on the vehicle type. Time is often money, especially for vehicles used by companies, and self-help can be a real alternative to breakdown service, at least if the right equipment is always on hand. With more than 1 million items on kfzteile24, the right item is always there. Thanks to the quick availability - the waiting time for most parts is only 24 hours - the specialist dealer also lives up to its name. Routine instead of panic The company vehicle breaks down on the open road, the customer waits for their goods or just-in-time production is in danger of coming to a standstill. A breakdown cannot be predicted and in most cases cannot be avoided, but the downtime can certainly be shortened with the right equipment. The most important helpers are durable and can be stored in the car to save space. In the event of a breakdown, the warning triangle can be set up in just a few easy steps, while the safety vest indicates the situation from a long way away and is available in many sizes. It can also be worn over work clothes and does not hinder securing the vehicle at the scene. The jump start cable is not a legal requirement, but is almost obligatory. If the battery goes flat, it helps cars, trucks and a variety of special vehicles to get back up and running. Breakdown assistance for major damage If it is a matter of removing a vehicle from the road or taking it to a specialist workshop, durable tow ropes help with transport. If you want to be on the safe side, use a tow bar. Thanks to the ingenious plug-in system, it can also be stored in a space-saving manner and assembled quickly, reduces the risk of collisions and ensures smooth starting. There are also suitable utensils for major damage. Easy-to-use fire extinguishers mean that in an emergency, the user is not faced with the question of how to operate the object. Approved first aid kits in accordance with the StVZO are used to treat minor wounds and provide first aid. The rescue blanket prevents hypothermia. So with the right equipment you can also have the good feeling of having everything you need with you at all times."
Ignition/glow system	Ignition/glow system			"In a combustion engine, ignition is the ignition of the compressed fuel-air mixture. The gasoline engine in particular requires spark plugs, which are only the last component of a complex ignition system. The challenge is to adjust the ignition point so that the maximum pressure of the combustion can act on the piston when it has passed its top dead center. At the same time, the piston must not have moved too far away again, otherwise a large part of the chemical energy released will literally fizzle out. An ideal ignition point therefore optimizes the performance of a car, minimizes fuel consumption and reduces exhaust emissions. Spark plug from Bosch Ignition coil from Bremi The parts of an ignition system In order to be able to generate an ignition spark, a voltage source is first required that supplies the initial energy. In modern vehicles, this usually means the battery. Until the middle of the 20th century, however, the energy was supplied by a generator driven by the engine, as batteries were initially expensive and not powerful enough. This form of ignition is called magneto ignition and is only used in vintage cars, mopeds or lawn mowers. In contrast, today the current from the battery flows into the primary winding of the ignition coil. This creates a magnetic field that is amplified by the iron core of the coil. If the ignition switch, also known as the breaker contact, opens, the magnetic field collapses. This change in the magnetic field induces a high voltage in the secondary winding of the coil. This ignition energy is passed on directly to the spark plug using an appropriate ignition cable or distributed to the spark plugs of the individual cylinders at different times via an ignition distributor. The spark plug The ignition coil, which acts as a transformer, generates a high voltage of up to 40,000 volts, which ionizes the gas cloud between the spark plug electrodes. The gas briefly becomes electrically conductive and a spark jumps. The circuit between the distributor, coil and battery is closed. The energy released ignites the compressed fuel-air mixture. After 1-2 milliseconds, the maximum combustion pressure is finally reached. The ignition point is therefore usually before the piston reaches top dead center. The ideal maximum pressure is then released at around 10  to 20  crankshaft position after the piston reaches top dead center. Ignition point too early In order not to waste energy and to be able to drive with the most powerful engine possible with low consumption, the ignition point should be close to the piston's top dead center, but pressure and temperature peaks must be avoided at the same time. Otherwise, uncontrolled spontaneous combustion of the fuel-air mixture could occur. This process is called knocking combustion.which can lead to the destruction of the engine. Poor exhaust emissions and loss of power are always the result. Ignition point too late If the ignition is too late, the combustion chamber has already increased in size again because the piston moves to its bottom dead center. As a result, the pressure on the piston is low. The energy that can be used to move the car is also low. This is not just an efficiency problem that draws attention to itself through loss of power, high fuel consumption and poor exhaust emissions. No, the thermal load on the engine also increases."
Ignition/glow system	Glow plug			"Glow plugs or glow pins are only used in diesel vehicles and are referred to in the technical literature as glow plugs. Their job is to improve the cold start behavior of a diesel engine and thus reduce harmful emissions. Glow plugs also ensure smooth and stable idling in a diesel. The need for glow plugs arises from the fact that in a cold engine with icy cylinder walls, the self-ignition temperature of the fuel may no longer be reached due to compression. Even if starting is still possible in winter, the result would be high pollutant emissions. In order to prevent these negative consequences of cold temperatures, starting aid systems are used. Glow plugs for the combustion chamber are used much more frequently than glow coils or heating flanges in the intake manifold. Glow plug from febi bilstein Glow plug from Beru Structure of glow plugs Glow plugs usually consist of a thin, tapered steel tube. Inside the glow plug there is a heating coil and a control coil as well as insulating powder, seals and insulating disks. The glow plug is powered via a connecting bolt. The electrical energy first flows through the nickel wire of the control coil and then causes the heating coil in the tip of the glow plug to glow. The principle is similar to that of a light bulb. Of course, the control coil also heats up, but it has a different temperature coefficient. The spreading heat therefore increases the resistance of the control coil, so that less current can flow to the heating coil. In this way, the system regulates itself at a constant voltage and the sensitive heating coil cannot overheat. Self-regulating glow plugs reach their glow temperature of 850  Celsius after 2 to 7 seconds and then continue to glow at lower temperatures and a power consumption of between 100 and 120 watts. Glow time control Of course, every cylinder needs a glow plug to achieve the best possible starting behavior. For the same reason, the glow plugs are usually controlled electronically, which uses the coolant temperature to determine whether the glow plugs need to be activated or not. There are three glow phases: Pre-heating As soon as the driver turns the ignition key to position 1, the glow plug control unit starts to calculate the pre-heating time based on the values ??from the coolant temperature sensor. If the temperature of the coolant exceeds a predetermined value (usually 60 C), pre-heating does not take place. Starting glow After pre-heating has been completed, the corresponding indicator light on the dashboard goes out. The glow plug control will, however, ensure that the plugs glow for a further 5 seconds, which means that the driver should start the engine as soon as the indicator light goes out.Afterglow Afterglow keeps the temperature at the optimum level. However, the process is usually interrupted as soon as the engine load is detected by the open idle switch. The afterglow phase is also ended when the coolant temperature exceeds 60  C or a maximum of 3 minutes have passed. Electronically controlled glow plugs With electronically controlled glow plugs, the control coil is shortened and the glow plugs, which are designed for 5 to 8 volts, are briefly subjected to an overvoltage of 11 volts in a pulse width modulated manner. This leads to a rapid temperature increase of up to 1000  C, which makes electronically controlled glow plugs very convenient for the driver. The glow temperature is already reached after 1-2 seconds and direct starting is possible even at low temperatures without delay. To avoid overloading the on-board network, the glow plugs are only activated briefly one after the other. A further development is ceramic glow plugs, whose heating element is no longer a coil but a conductive solid ceramic. These glow even faster, reaching a maximum of 1250 C, and are used in cars with automatic start-stop systems. Finally, modern glow plugs are also able to measure the pressure in the combustion chamber and transmit it to the control unit. The signal is processed and interpreted there. Changing glow plugs Glow plugs are exposed to high thermal loads and are replaced every 50,000 to 150,000 kilometers. However, leave the replacement to a qualified workshop, as a delicate touch is required both when removing and installing the new glow plugs. Due to the high combustion pressures, coking can occur under certain circumstances, meaning that the glow plugs cannot be unscrewed with the prescribed loosening torque. In this case, the engine must be warmed up and a special solvent applied. Too much force can cause the glow plugs to unscrew, resulting in high costs. Once the glow plugs have been removed, the glow channel must be cleaned thoroughly before the new glow plugs are inserted. The function of each glow plug is then checked using an appropriate test device.After 1-2 seconds, the glow temperature is already reached and direct starting is possible even at low temperatures without delay. To avoid overloading the on-board network, the glow plugs are only activated briefly one after the other. A further development is ceramic glow plugs, whose heating element is no longer a coil but a conductive solid ceramic. These glow even faster with up to 1250  C at the tip and are used in cars with automatic start-stop systems. Finally, modern glow plugs are also able to measure the pressure in the combustion chamber and pass it on to the control unit. The signal is processed and interpreted there. Changing glow plugs Glow plugs are exposed to high thermal loads and are replaced every 50,000 to 150,000 kilometers. However, leave the replacement to a qualified workshop, as a delicate touch is required both when removing and installing the new glow plugs. Due to the high combustion pressures, coking can occur, meaning that the glow plugs cannot be unscrewed with the prescribed loosening torque. In this case, the engine must be warmed up and a special solvent applied. Too much force can cause the glow plugs to unscrew, resulting in high costs. Once the glow plugs have been removed, the glow channel must be thoroughly cleaned before the new glow plugs are inserted. The function of each glow plug is then tested using an appropriate test device.After 1-2 seconds, the glow temperature is already reached and direct starting is possible even at low temperatures without delay. To avoid overloading the on-board network, the glow plugs are only activated briefly one after the other. A further development is ceramic glow plugs, whose heating element is no longer a coil but a conductive solid ceramic. These glow even faster with up to 1250  C at the tip and are used in cars with automatic start-stop systems. Finally, modern glow plugs are also able to measure the pressure in the combustion chamber and pass it on to the control unit. The signal is processed and interpreted there. Changing glow plugs Glow plugs are exposed to high thermal loads and are replaced every 50,000 to 150,000 kilometers. However, leave the replacement to a qualified workshop, as a delicate touch is required both when removing and installing the new glow plugs. Due to the high combustion pressures, coking can occur, meaning that the glow plugs cannot be unscrewed with the prescribed loosening torque. In this case, the engine must be warmed up and a special solvent applied. Too much force can cause the glow plugs to unscrew, resulting in high costs. Once the glow plugs have been removed, the glow channel must be thoroughly cleaned before the new glow plugs are inserted. The function of each glow plug is then tested using an appropriate test device.The function of each glow plug is then checked using an appropriate test device.The function of each glow plug is then checked using an appropriate test device."
Ignition/glow system	Glow monitor			"Glow monitors were only used in diesel vehicles, as they had to be preheated for better cold start behavior. The diesel-air mixture is compressed, which causes the temperature to rise and ultimately leads to self-ignition. In cold temperatures, the necessary ignition temperature may not be reached and the engine will not start. The combustion chamber must therefore first be brought up to temperature. In modern cars, this is done using glow plugs. A heating coil is energized and heated. The glow monitor informed the driver of the heating status. As soon as the preheating temperature reached around 1000  Celsius, the dark red color of the heated wire indicated that the engine could be started. This ""Rudolf Diesel minute of remembrance"" is no longer necessary in modern engines, as the preheating times could be steadily reduced over time. Glow monitor or glow guard Glow times of glow plugs The glow process is usually divided into three phases, whereby a glow temperature of approx. 1000  Celsius is reached after 2-5 seconds. The pre-glow indicator light, which has a similar function to the glow guard, then goes out and the driver can start the engine. The afterglow supports the engine until the coolant temperature exceeds a threshold value or the preset time period of usually three minutes is exceeded. Electronically controlled ceramic glow plugs reach higher temperatures even faster (within 1-2 seconds), so that there is no longer a need for glow monitors in modern vehicles."
Ignition/glow system	Impulse generator			"Both the ignition timing and the injection moment play a decisive role in effective, low-emission combustion. To ensure the timing is correct, sensors are required that detect and transmit both the speed and the position of the crankshaft or camshaft of an engine. Induction sensors or Hall sensors usually perform this task. The signal from these pulse sensors is interpreted by a corresponding control unit, which ultimately interrupts the primary circuit of the ignition coil(s). This allows the transformed high voltage to be applied to the spark plug at the desired ignition point and the fuel-air mixture to be ignited. Pulse sensor Camshaft position Speed ??sensor Speed ??detection Depending on the engine concept, the speed can be detected by various sensors at different points. One possibility is an induction sensor on the crankshaft, which consists of a fixed copper winding around a magnet in which an alternating voltage is induced by a rotating sensor gear. The ferromagnetic sensor wheel is firmly mounted on the crankshaft and its teeth generate a magnetic flux change in the sensor coil. The engine speed is determined from the frequency of the resulting alternating voltage. The position of the crankshaft can also be detected using a reference mark, e.g. a gap in the ring gear of the sensor wheel. Hall sensors In addition to inductive speed sensors, Hall sensors play an important role in modern engine control. They are used in the distributor or on the camshaft, for example. Of course, they can also be used on the crankshaft. Compared to induction sensors, they offer the advantage that the signal voltage is independent of the speed, i.e. reliable measurement is possible even at low speeds. The core of such a Hall sensor is the so-called Hall generator, which consists of a semiconductor layer through which a supply current flows. If a magnet moves perpendicular to the semiconductor layer, the electrons are pushed to one side of the semiconductor and a Hall voltage is generated in the Hall generator. The size of the Hall voltage depends on the strength of the magnetic field. The different sensors at the various locations can of course also be combined to provide the most accurate picture of the piston position possible."
Ignition/glow system	Control unit/relay/sensors			"The right timing is a crucial criterion for ignition systems in order to be able to burn the fuel efficiently and with low emissions. Glow plug systems for diesel engines must also be regulated by suitable control units in order to optimally support the combustion of the fuel. A corresponding control unit evaluates the coolant temperature, for example, and uses the available data to decide whether and for how long pre-heating or post-heating is to take place. If the coolant has exceeded a temperature of 60  Celsius, for example, the engine is warm enough and further glowing is no longer necessary. Control unit Glow plug time Avoid heavy sooting If your diesel car has problems starting and is also producing a lot of soot, you should check the glow plug system. Are the glow plugs working? Is the glow plug time sufficient? Perhaps the control unit or the coolant sensor is defective. Retrofit kits are also available for older vehicles that promise a significant reduction in glow plug times and also protect the battery thanks to the better starting behavior. Avoiding soot is also good for the environment. Control units, relays and sensors for the glow and ignition system As a specialist dealer for spare and wear parts, we not only offer ignition coils, spark plugs, ignition cables or ignition distributors. We also offer glow plugs and the corresponding control units, relays and sensors."
Ignition/glow system	Series resistor			"A series resistor is an electrical component that basically has the task of limiting the voltage at or the electrical current through a subsequent component. The series resistor is therefore connected in series. Ignition coils are usually simple ohmic resistors that allow the vehicle's mains voltage to drop to the desired value. The power loss is lost in the form of heat and the series resistor must of course be able to withstand this thermal load. Series resistor of a glow plug system What are series resistors used for in the ignition and glow plug system? Series resistors can also ensure that electronic components in the ignition or glow plug system of a car are only operated with the intended voltage. This is easy to explain using the example of an ignition coil. The on-board voltage of the vehicle is around 14 volts while driving, which are generated by the generator. However, if the ignition coil is designed for an operating voltage of 8 - 10 volts due to its internal resistance, a series resistor is required. On the other hand, when starting the car, the battery with its 12 V has to supply the power for the starter. This requires a very high current, so that the battery voltage drops to 8 to 10 volts. If the series resistor were added now, the ignition coil would no longer be able to supply the ignition voltage for the spark. The series resistor is therefore usually bridged during the starting process. Buy a suitable series resistor from kfzteile24 Series resistors are extremely simple components that you can buy cheaply online from kfzteile24 to match your car. You can choose between brand manufacturer Bosch and series resistors from the bargain category. Of course, these particularly cheap alternatives also meet all requirements. If you have any questions about the series resistor, contact our friendly and competent support, but we also offer you a full 365-day right of return if the component does not fit your ignition or glow plug system. Shipping is usually within 24 hours. This is possible thanks to our computer-aided and optimized logistics. This reliability combined with our focus on quality also makes us an ideal partner for workshops and breakdown services."
Ignition/glow system	Ignition cables/connectors			"Ignition cables or ignition leads are high-performance cables that conduct the high voltage generated by the ignition coil to the spark plugs without loss or interference. The technically sophisticated ignition cables are hardly distinguishable from other cables on the outside, but must meet numerous requirements. Due to the high voltages of up to 40,000 volts, sufficient insulation is necessary to achieve a high dielectric strength. Reliable interference suppression in the close range is also important so that no electromagnetic fields affect radios, mobile phones or even ABS, engine and transmission control units. Finally, the proximity to the engine means that the cable is exposed to high temperatures and must have great mechanical strength. Corrosion resistance and resistance to operating materials such as oil and fuel complete the list of requirements for an ignition lead. Change ignition leads regularly Ignition cables are wearing parts that must be checked regularly and replaced if necessary. For example, the contacts can oxidize and increase the electrical resistance of the cable. The plastic sheath can also become brittle over time due to the outgassing of plasticizers. Contact with hot parts accelerates the process and damage to the insulation then leads to fault currents. This results in misfiring, which leads to the engine running unevenly and a loss of power. Unburned fuel can also get into the catalytic converter, where it firstly hinders the catalysis of the exhaust gases and, in the worst case, burns and causes the component to melt. Changing the ignition cables If necessary, the ignition cables should be replaced as a complete ignition cable set, as experience has shown that they show a similar wear pattern and, secondly, combining different cables is not recommended. For example, the ignition cables with different electrical conductors must not be combined to avoid faults in the engine management. When replacing the ignition cables, the contacts of the ignition distributor should be checked. Only connect the new ignition cables if the contacts are OK. The cables also differ in length and are specified for each cylinder. Make sure that you only change the ignition cables when the battery is disconnected and lay the cables without kinks. Disconnect the ignition cable from the ignition coilIgnition cable removed from the first cylinderIgnition cable successfully replaced Malfunctions caused by defective ignition cablesDefective ignition cables can manifest themselves in different ways depending on the type of damage. They should generally be checked if the engine does not start. This sometimes occurs particularly on hot or cold days. Poor starting behavior can also be caused by damaged ignition cables. Irregular idling also indicates problems with the ignition system."
Ignition/glow system	spark plug			"Spark plugs are part of the ignition system and the hot, fast-beating heart of the car. Sparks initiate the combustion of the fuel-air mixture in the cylinders of a petrol engine, which in turn pushes the piston downwards. Although modern, electronic spark plugs hardly wear out these days, they can still be the cause of starting difficulties, reduced engine performance, increased consumption or even misfiring while driving. The electrodes of a spark plug give the specialist important clues about possible causes of the malfunction. An oily spark plug, for example, indicates leaky piston rings or an oil level that is too high, while a burnt-out center electrode is a sign of thermal overload. If the heat value of the plug is correct, defective valves or incorrect ignition timing could be the cause. In order to avoid long-term engine damage, an expert should always be consulted if the spark plug is defective. Spark plug from Bosch Spark plug for a VW Golf 3 Changing spark plugs - it's that easy to replace! But even without acute problems, spark plugs should be replaced over time. The maintenance intervals depend on the mileage of the car and can be found in the manufacturer's manual. Replacement is normally recommended after 30,000 to 60,000 km, although spark plugs with platinum or iridium electrodes can reach 100,000 km and more. Changing the spark plugs is simple in principle, but depending on the engine model, requires manual skill as they are often difficult to access. A spark plug wrench or a suitable plug is required. First, the ignition cable is disconnected and then the spark plug is unscrewed anti-clockwise. Make sure that as little dirt as possible gets into the ignition chamber through the opening. The new spark plug is then screwed in with the correct torque. This is important both to seal the cylinder airtight again and to avoid damaging the plug and the thread. Spark plugs are always changed when the engine is cold."
Ignition/glow system	Ignition module/switchgear			"Like many parts of a car, the ignition module also has different names. The corresponding component is also known as a switching device, ignition switch, ignition control unit or, in older vehicles, as a breaker contact. The ignition module has the function of a switch that opens and closes the circuit of the primary winding of the ignition coil. However, the circuit is usually not interrupted mechanically but by a transistor. This semiconductor element does not wear out and does not have contact problems when exposed to moisture. As a result, more precise ignition times are possible, which result in higher performance and better emissions. Ignition module from Bremi Ignition module from Hella Structure and function of the ignition module In order to transform the battery voltage of approx. 12 volts to the high voltage required for ignition, an ignition coil is required, which basically consists of 2 windings. When the ignition switch is closed, current flows through the primary winding with its few turns. This creates a magnetic field, which in turn induces a current within the secondary winding with its many turns. When the switching device opens, the energy stored in the ignition coil as a magnetic field can only flow away via the secondary winding. In this transformation process, high voltages of up to 40,000 volts are reached, which are ultimately responsible for the spark at the spark plug. The spark therefore occurs when the ignition switch opens. In older vehicles, the primary circuit was interrupted by a switch that was operated via a ""nose"" through the camshaft. The ignition switch was accordingly called an interrupter contact. Ignition modules, on the other hand, can work more precisely and sensor-based to limit the induced current within the coil. Cooling ignition modules The primary current for the ignition coil is 10 amps and more, with the high current intensity resulting in a large amount of heat being generated in the ignition module. This is referred to as power loss, which can even destroy the ignition module if the cooling is inadequate. Ignition modules therefore have cooling surfaces or heat sinks made of aluminum that release the heat generated into the environment. If the ignition module is screwed onto other cooling plates or the chassis, the contact surface should be treated with thermal paste. Check the plugs and connections of the ignition system regularly for corrosion, as cable resistance increases heat development. In the worst case, this can even lead to cable fires. Ignition modules have a life expectancy of 60,000 - 80,000 kilometers and a defect manifests itself in a similarly non-specific way to broken ignition cables. The engine does not start or starts poorly in hot or cold weather. Irregular idling can also be the result of a defective switching device."
Ignition/glow system	ignition coil			"Task of the ignition coil How it works and how it is constructed Advantages of pencil ignition coils Ignition coil defective? Symptoms of problems Changing ignition coils Buy ignition coils from kfzteile24 1. Task of the ignition coil The task of the ignition coil within the ignition system of a car is to transform the on-board voltage of 12 volts to the necessary high voltage so that the spark can jump between the electrodes of the spark plug. The discharge ignites the compressed fuel-air mixture and converts bound chemical energy, which ultimately pushes the piston down inside the cylinder and is converted into torque by the crankshaft. However, a large part of the energy is not available for propulsion in the form of light and heat. 2. Function and how it is constructed The ignition coil is constructed like a transformer, with the primary winding having a very small number of turns. Depending on the coil, there are 100 to 500 turns of thick, insulated copper wire. Due to the large cable cross-section and the short conductor length, the resistance is low (R = 0.3 - 2.5 ohms) and a high current can flow with low inductance. This creates a magnetic field with a high energy density in accordance with the electromagnetic interaction. An iron core reinforces the effect. The secondary winding also consists of a copper wire wound around an iron core, but that is where the similarities end. The wire is very thin and the number of turns of the secondary coil is 15,000 to 30,000 and the resistance is between 5,000 and 20,000 ohms. Once the magnetic field has built up in the primary winding, the primary current is interrupted by a switching device or ignition module. The magnetic field collapses suddenly and a high voltage of up to 400 volts is induced, which is further increased according to the transformation ratio between the primary and secondary coils. Up to 40,000 volts of voltage are ultimately present in the secondary circuit. This voltage is sufficient to ionize the gas between the spark plug electrodes and make it electrically conductive for a short time. The spark that jumps over closes the circuit and the energy stored in the ignition coil is dissipated within 1.0 - 2.5 ms. 3. The advantages of rod ignition coils or single-spark ignition coils The ignition voltage is now often no longer passed on to the spark plug of the respective cylinder via an ignition distributor. In engines with high speeds and many cylinders, the problem is that an ignition coil alone is not able to build up the necessary magnetic fields in the primary winding quickly enough. If the closing times of the primary circuit are too short, the necessary high voltage can no longer be achieved. The result would be misfiring.For this reason, single-spark ignition coils were developed, each of which is responsible for just one cylinder and is usually located directly on the spark plug. Similarly, double-spark ignition coils supply two cylinders with high voltage. This means that a movable claw rotor is no longer necessary, the contacts of which can corrode. In addition, there is no longer any high voltage on the ignition cables, so shielding the resulting magnetic field is much less of a problem. Pencil ignition coil from Bosch Modern engines have lots of sensors and, with a compact design, induced currents could lead to error messages even though all components are functioning correctly. There is also hardly any voltage loss and the requirements for the dielectric strength of the cables are also lower. Pencil spark plugs also offer the option of setting the ignition timing separately for each cylinder. This can counteract the tendency of the fuel to knock, for example, and of course increase combustion efficiency. 4. Ignition coil defective? Symptoms of problems Ignition coils are subject to wear and tear and are not immune to defects. For example, internal short circuits or mechanical damage to the connector plug can occur, caused by engine vibrations. Corrosion on the connector connections due to moisture ingress or damage due to faulty voltage supply, e.g. if the generator no longer delivers full power, are also conceivable. Symptoms of a defective ignition system are rough idling, problems when accelerating (jerking, misfiring), high consumption values ??or even total engine failure. However, these symptoms cannot be specifically attributed to the ignition coil(s). You should therefore always look at the spark plugs. 5. Changing single-spark ignition coils Using a VW Golf 4 Variant 1.6 16V as an example, we will explain how to change pencil ignition coils. Only two screwdrivers are required for the work. Open the bonnet and disconnect the battery at the negative terminal. Remove the engine cover and pull off the crankcase ventilation hose. The oil filler neck is removed to make it easier to access the ignition coils. To prevent dirt from getting into the engine, simply replace the oil cap. The throttle valve unit is also covered with a cloth to prevent dirt and damage. Remove the engine coverOil filler neckCable holder Open the cable ducts so that neither the cables nor the holders are damaged when changing the ignition coils. The ignition coils can now be carefully levered out of the holder. Make sure that you actually place the screwdriver on the ignition coil and not on the plug. The plug can then be removed. These are typical VW plugs where the nose has to be pressed down.Repeat the process on all four ignition coils. Of course, no dirt should fall into the openings that have now been cleared, so that the contact between the ignition coil and the spark plug is not endangered later. Lever out the ignition coil Change the ignition coil Plug in the new ignition coil The ignition coils are reconnected to the cables, whereby the plug must audibly click into place. Insert the ignition coils slowly and secure them with light pressure. Pay attention to the length of the cables to ensure that the ignition coils are connected correctly. An incorrect ignition point can ultimately mean the end of the engine. However, it is usually not possible to swap the cables. Once the ignition coils have been inserted, the cables are laid neatly in the cable tray and secured with the small retaining clips. Replace the oil filler neck, connect the crankcase ventilation hose and fasten the engine cover. Finally, the battery can be reconnected."
Ignition/glow system	Ignition distributor/parts			"The job of an ignition distributor is to pass the high voltage from the ignition coil on to the spark plugs so that they can ignite the fuel-air mixture at the right ignition point. Ignition distributors are necessary if the engine does not use a multiple spark ignition coil or single spark ignition coils and can be imagined as a rotating drum. The distributor shaft rotates at half the crankshaft speed and has a distributor rotor that connects and disconnects the ignition cables arranged around the shaft to the ignition coil. The ignition distributor must therefore be adjusted so that the distributor rotor is exactly opposite the cable contact when the ignition point for the corresponding cylinder has arrived. Ignition distributor Ignition distributor rotor Changing the ignition distributor Changing the ignition distributor is generally not a job for laypeople because, after all, the component determines the ignition point. If the ignition distributor is replaced, the ignition point must of course be adjusted again. As a rule, before removing the distributor, the piston of the first cylinder is first brought to its top dead center so that the distributor rotor is in contact with the ignition cable connection of the first cylinder. The new distributor is then installed in such a way that the ignition cable of the first cylinder is energized. The ignition connection cables must not be mixed up under any circumstances and fine adjustment using a strobe light and the control unit for the ignition timing is also necessary. Have this work carried out by a qualified specialist workshop to avoid loss of performance or engine damage."
